david cameron \ `` d.c. \ '' anderson u.s. cabaret folk , actor make broadway debut andrew lloyd webber 's phantom opera . 
tour nationally judge coras boublil 's martin guerre , life adventure nicholas , phantom opera andre , pippin pippin . 
bear near chicago , illinois spend youth ohio - graduate elyria high school elyria high hall fame inductee . 
also graduate ohio 's baldwin-wallace college degree theater art . 
post graduate work north dakota state university direct follow . 
regional credit include act stint steppenwolf theater company chicago - ` ballad little jo ' mike reid sarah schlesinger direct tina landau , northlight theater 's ` three postcard ' craig carnelia craig lucas , direct david petrarca , ` laramie project : epilogue st louis repertory theater direct doug finlayson guthrie theater 's martin guerre , direct conal morrison . 
perform solo concert theater music room new york , san francisco , los angeles , chicago . 
award include backstage magazine 's 2002 bistro award cabaret hotline online 's jeff matson award . 
1993 d.c. produce first holiday benefit recording broadway fight aids . 
title cabaret noel . 
album 2 cd set feature 22 new never record song kander ebb , stephen sondheim jule styne , polly pen , alan chapman , roy zimmerman , stephen flaherty lynn ahrens , amanda mcbroom , michele , . 
performances popular broadway cabaret performer richard kiley , leslie uggams , robert morse , andrea marcovicci , cheryl , tommy tune , maureen mcgovern , karen ziemba , susan stroman scott ellis , jeff , portia nelson , brian stokes mitchell , karen akers , . 
2010 , d.c. produce ` room ' - 20 artist folk , americana , acoustic cd benefit national multiple sclerosis society lml music label . 
see discography . 
d.c. 's concert consist eclectic mix comic ballad original song , often collaboration steven landau , ritt henn , geoff packard , stephen , jeff rizzo , david robison , elizabeth doyle , carol hall , russ , well cover song , include many cheryl wheeler . 
