fuller potter american abstract expressionist artist . 
bear new york city 1910 , attend st. bernard 's school new york groton school groton , massachusetts , live life ledyard , connecticut estate , near old mystic . 
potter start paint traditional mode representation , specialize still life landscape . 
work show new york 1930 marie harriman gallery fuller potter spend several formative year paint landscape portrait southern appalachia region , later study painting paris andre lhote 1929 1931 , new york walt kuhn thomas hart benton . 
1950 , potter meet jackson pollock change mode painting permanently abstraction , number show body work mystic gallery mystic , connecticut . 
start transition towards abstract painting , combine graphic skill mastery color , follow path would lead artistic peak , full abstract expressionist period . 
several work see www . 
. 
com . 
1940s , potter 's work still mostly figurative , show deliberate avoidance ordinary representation . 
early 1950 , potter 's style keep early work ad reinhardt jackson pollock 's 1940 's work . 
paint ` new york school ' style , along several contemporary , include franz kline , joan mitchell , jean-paul riopelle , william baziotes , jackson pollock . 
show style several new england art venue . 
museum city new york exhibit fuller potter 's work along joan mir \ georgia o'keeffe main lobby , 1959 . 
jeffrey potter 's violent grave , biography jackson pollock 's last year , report fuller potter share drinking session jackson pollock mid-1950 . 
encounter , occupy short period life , fuller 's work evolve towards mature personal form abstraction . 
potter never pursue action mode abstract expressionism notable degree . 
paint deliver loaded brush hand , opulently , generously aggressively . 
fuller potter consider one major abstract painter 20th century . 
die emphysema may 1990 westerly hospital westerly , r.i. . 
80 year old . 
survive three son , daniel otis stonington , conn. , paul , washington , benjamin c.j. marion , n.c. ; daughter , mary barton goodman morristown , tenn. ; sister , polly balding camden , s.c. , two brother , charles , chicago , jeffrey , east hampton , l.i. 
