curtis sheppard bear ca. 1919 former american boxer philadelphia , pennsylvania . 
sheppard popular fighter 1940s , especially television technology arrive homeland late year decade . 
nickname \ `` . 
\ '' common era , record birthdate , death date dead , keep . 
sheppard never receive world title shot . 
boxing describe \ `` journeyman . 
\ '' however , career many downs , make interesting boxer fan watch . 
february 2005 issue ring magazine , describe \ `` gatekeeper , \ '' fighter stand way boxer seek title shot . 
sheppard begin career professional boxer september 24 , 1938 , knock larry white first round madison square garden . 
first defeat november 1 year , danny peal , decision . 
sheppard would win four fight row , include one herbie katz , immediate rematch , sheppard 's win streak stop four , katz beat decision . 
next fight , november 18 , 1939 , sheppard meet future world heavyweight champion jersey joe walcott . 
sheppard lose fight eight round decision . 
another win loss , meet tony musto , another fighter era remember fight many name boxer . 
musto beat sheppard ten round decision , july 1 , 1940 . 
sheppard win three one contest next four bout , include win lee q. murray . 
no-contest bout elza thompson , april 17 1941 , pittsburgh . 
lose , decision willie reddish , eleven day fight thompson . 
june year , beat q. murray ; , august 2 , lose decision future hall famer jimmy bivins . 
sheppard win five next seven fight , july 27 , 1942 , lose future world light heavyweight champion joey maxim , ten round decision . 
win two next four fight . 
two fight win span include another no-contest , time hubert hood , six round . 
maxim world 's # 1 challenger light heavyweight division time , need one win earn world title shot . 
, maxim 's management , think sheppard would easy opponent , schedule match sheppard maxim . 
sheppard temporarily spoil maxim 's plan , knock round one rematch , march 10 . 
result , would knockout loss maxim 's career , surprise ring magazine writer many boxing fan . 
need restore image order fight world light heavyweight title , maxim sign immediate rematch sheppard , would third fight two boxer . 
maxim prevail time around , ten-round decision . 
maxim go become world champion , sheppard continue fight anyone , anytime . 
twenty-six day later , go ring fighter 12-0 fight : sheppard defeat clint conway ten round decision april 26 . 
sheppard win two next five fight , embark win streak . 
first three win first-round knockout , include one conway , december 12 , 1943 . 
january 24 , 1944 , one best performance beat future challenger world heavyweight championship gus ten round unanimous decision . 
win streak stop buddy walker , defeat sheppard february 6 , ten round decision . 
next fourteen fight almost elite light heavyweight division : beat buddy walker knockout eight round rematch . 
beat tony knockout five , lose q. murray future world champion bettina , ten round decision . 
beat alf brown , dan merritt , buddy walker , except walker 
