venkatraman radhakrishnan bear 18 may 1929 internationally renowned space scientist member royal swedish academy sciences . 
professor emeritus raman research institute bangalore , india , director 1972 1994 . 
professor radhakrishnan bear , suburb madras . 
earlier schooling madras . 
marry mrs. radhakrishnan . 
one son vivek , marry namrata recently move bangalore usa . 
prof. radhakrishnan serve various committee various capacity . 
vice president international astronomical union 1988-1994 . 
serve chairman commission j radio astronomy international union radio sciences 1981-1984 . 
radhakrishnan one respected radio astronomers world today , associate one capacity world \ u2019 biggest radio telescope . 
member foreign advisory committee netherlands foundation radio astronomy , steering committee australia telescope national facility , csiro , australia , advisory committee green bank radio telescope , national radio astronomy observatory , usa also member governing council physical research laboratory , ahmedabad scientific advisory committee inter-university centre astronomy astrophysics . 
period 1973 \ 1981 member indian national committee astronomy . 
radhakrishnan select various scientific body , national international . 
foreign fellow royal swedish academy sciences u.s. national science academy . 
associate royal astronomical society fellow indian academy sciences , bangalore internationally acclaimed astrophysicist also renown design fabrication ultralight aircraft sailboat . 
prof. v. radhakrishnan receive b. sc . 
hon mysore university . 
start research career research scholar department physics , indian institute science bangalore thereafter research faculty various world famous institute . 
work chalmers university technology , gothenburg , sweden research assistant 1955-58 . 
senior research fellow california institute technology , usa join radiophysics division commonwealth scientific industrial research organisation , sydney , australia initially senior research scientist later principal research scientist . 
return india 1972 take task rebuild raman research institute \ u2019 director . 
tenure director raman research institute 1972 \ build international reputation work area pulsar astronomy , liquid crystal area frontline research astronomy . 
university amsterdam confer prestigious doctor honoris causa degree prof. radhakrishnan 1996 . 
