paul john mark szabo canadian politician . 
current member canadian house commons , represent ride mississauga south liberal party . 
szabo receive bachelor science degree university western ontario 1970 . 
work accountant price waterhouse toronto 1970 1974 , receive certification canadian institute chartered accountants 1973 . 
receive m.b.a. york university 1975 , corporate controller heede international ltd. 1975-76 , serve director finance transcanada pipelines ltd. 1977 1983 . 
work corporate treasurer united cooperative ontario 1984 1990 , open private accounting practice mississauga . 
szabo also serve vice-chair director mississauga hospital nine year , director interim place shelter abused woman five year , director peel regional housing authority five year . 
szabo long involve liberal party . 
party 's candidate mississauga south federal election 1980 1984 , lose progressive conservative occasion first time 473 vote , second time greater margin . 
szabo first elect election 1993 , defeat reformer john veenstra significant margin . 
re-elect 1997 election , easily defeat reformer joe peschisolido later become liberal mp pc candidate dick barr . 
win another comfortable victory 2000 election . 
szabo know one socially conservative member liberal caucus . 
pro-life , write two work perceive breakdown traditional family value : divorce - bold fact strong family make strong country . 
szabo also lead opposition within liberal caucus bill permit stem cell research , credit blame modify final wording bill . 
also opponent same-sex marriage . 
2004 , szabo award joseph p. borowski award pro-life activity . 
szabo also promote child 's issue , bring forward private member 's legislation provide stiffer criminal sentence abuser woman child . 
support greater funding maternal parental leave . 
, well , szabo 's view strongly influence social conservatism . 
describe woman 's shelter perpetuate cycle poverty , believe stronger emphasis family unit provide viable solution poverty issue . 
addition two work mention , szabo write four monograph : tragic tolerance domestic violence , child poverty solution , fetal alcohol syndrome - real brain drain ethics science stem cell . 
publication available on-line , via website see . 
szabo never appoint cabinet , though serve parliamentary secretary minister public works government services 2000 2003 . 
also serve chair parliamentary friendship group four year . 
2004 , szabo face serious challenge charles sousa liberal nomination mississauga south . 
sousa support many left-wing liberal party , szabo support many right-wing . 
speculate carolyn parrish , liberal mp neighbouring ride , assist sousa , campaign life organization work szabo . 
szabo win challenge , 966 vote 838 . 
nomination prove szabo 's difficult challenge 2004 campaign . 
although conservative party canada target ride , szabo able win re-election 50 % support . 
canadian federal election , 2006 , szabo face tough effort conservative candidate phil green also run conservative 2004 , still manage win 
