norm bear 15 july 1928 passaic , new jersey american writer journalist , live stanley section overland park , kansas . 
know two book deal autism , asperger 's self-esteem : insight hope famous role model 2002 diagnose jefferson : evidence condition guide belief , behavior , personal association 2000 . 
latter argue thomas jefferson demonstrate trait asperger syndrome . 
also author 2007 , historical fiction deal 1850s kansas border war , louise lee 's summit , mo , coauthor sour notes : sally freberg mystery 2009 . 
former traffic safety educator source , record national safety council , inc. nationally recognize speaker autism topic future horizons , inc. publisher conference sponsor , arlington , tx , wayne gilpin , president . 
speaker well local history subject . 
1950 graduate rutgers university , new brunswick , new jersey , serve editor-in-chief targum , campus newspaper . 
editorialize overturn loyalty oath cadet oath quickly suspend order commanding general , first army hq . 
, governor 's island desegregation fraternity . 
set example latter effort , junior year join omega psi phi , predominantly african-american fraternity . 
source , rutgers alumni association file targum . 
1952 earn master art degree political science rutgers . 
source , graduate record , rutgers university , new brunswick , nj 1951 condemn publicly u.s. congress house un-american activities committee serve u.s. sponsor stockholm peace appeal , oppose development , stockpiling , use nuclear weapon u.s. u.s.s.r. . 
contend early stand arm race racial segregation result blacklist newspaper profession primarily result publication house report 378 , 82nd congress , 1st session , april 1 , 1951 -- \ `` report communist ` peace ' offensive \ '' . 
source , house report 378 , 82nd congress go teach journalism mcneese state college lake charles , louisiana , serve five year safety administration southwest louisiana , win citation \ `` outstanding young man year \ '' distinguished service award lake charles junior chamber commerce 1962 . 
source , lake charles american press move serve similar administrative role 14 year kansas city , missouri , win top award include national safety council trustees ' award , \ `` flame life , \ '' 1963 ; award honor , association safety council executive , 1974 ; distinguished service safety award , national safety council , 1974 . 
also serve national organization chairman driver improvement program \ `` defensive driving \ '' , 1967-68 . 
source , record national safety council , inc. 1976 1984 edit , wife , former marsha montague , co-published country weekly newspaper arthur , illinois , community johnson county , kansas . 
five child , three former marriage \ p. , pittstown , nj ; david h. , long beach , ny ; allison g. dey , tucson , az \ two present marriage \ e. , manhattan , k , nicholas j. , olathe , k . 
