janet davison rowley bear april 5 , 1925 american human geneticist first scientist identify chromosomal translocation cause leukemia cancer . 
janet davison bear new york city 1925 , child hurford ethel ballantyne davison . 
father hold master business administration harvard business school , mother master 's degree education columbia university . 
parent educator college high school level , respectively , mother later give teaching become school librarian . 
davison attend academically challenging junior high school new jersey become especially interested science . 
1940 , aged 15 , grant scholarship study advanced placement program university chicago laboratory schools finish high school first two year college , follow completion degree university chicago , earn bachelor philosophy degree 1944 , bachelor science degree 1946 , doctor medicine degree 1948 , aged 23 . 
marry donald adams rowley , also physician , day graduate medical school . 
rowley balanced family life career work part-time raise four son . 
begin full-time research youngest 12 year old . 
earn medical license 1951 , dr. rowley work attend physician infant prenatal clinic department public health , montgomery county , maryland . 
1955 take research post chicago 's dr. julian levinson foundation , clinic child developmental disability , remain 1961 . 
also teach neurology university illinois school medicine . 
1962 , year england nih trainee , study pattern dna replication normal abnormal human chromosome , dr. rowley return university chicago , research associate department hematology . 
become associate professor 1969 , full professor 1977 . 
1970 , develop use exist method quinacrine fluorescence giemsa staining identify chromosome , demonstrate abnormal chromosome implicate certain type leukemia involve translocation chromosome 9 case . 
translocation process piece one chromosome break join another chromosome , two chromosome exchange material break . 
also identify translocation chromosome 8 21 acute myelogenous leukemia . 
dr. rowley publish finding 1970 , argue specific translocation cause specific disease , go established view cause cancer give little significance chromosomal abnormality . 
although resistance idea first , work prove immensely influential , 1990 seventy translocation identify across different cancer . 
1984 , dr. rowley make distinguished service professor university chicago , position still hold , well serve interim deputy dean science since 2001 . 
1998 , one three scientist award prestigious lasker award work translocation , receive national medal science 1999 . 
2009 , dr. rowley award presidential medal freedom , united states ' highest civilian honor , gruber prize genetics . 
publish four hundred article continue research university chicago . 
