arthur d'arcy \ `` bobby \ '' locke 20 november 1917 -- 9 march 1987 one first internationally successful south african golfer . 
locke bear germiston , south africa . 
play first open championship 1936 , eighteen , finish low amateur . 
turn professional two year later prolific tournament winner native country , eventually accumulate 38 win southern africa tour . 
golf career interrupt service south african air force world war ii . 
locke resume career america 1946 , play series exhibition sam snead , one top american golfer day , win 12 14 match . 
impressed snead invite bobby come united states give pga tour try , advice locke quickly follow . 
two-and-a-half year pga tour , locke play 59 event ; win eleven , finish top three thirty -- half . 
1947 , locke dominate american tour , win six tournament include four five-week period finish second jimmy demaret money list . 
even remarkably , locke arrive united states first time april . 
1948 , win chicago victory national 16 stroke , , 2006 , remain pga tour record margin victory . 
following year , locke ban tour , ostensibly dispute play commitment . 
however likely ban grow resentment towards pga player . 
ban lift 1951 , locke choose return play united states . 
despite perhaps success , many american player dislike locke , though anything locke . 
simply resent foreign player arrive tour \ `` raiding \ '' prize money , highly skilled locke often . 
locke build success around outstanding put ability , coin phrase \ `` drive show , putt dough . 
\ '' wear trademark knickers , white shoe , stocking , locke play game slow deliberate pace , perhaps another reason american pro annoy . 
locke place great emphasis accuracy hit fairway green , employ extreme right-to-left ball flight one border hook nearly every shot . 
green , locke bona fide genius , use strange put style would bring putter back far inside , \ `` cut \ '' hooded approach great eye read break put veritable put clinic every time play . 
locke believe could put spin putt similar shot make \ `` hook \ '' \ `` slice \ '' , use unorthodox technique great success . 
leave pga tour , locke continue career europe africa , feel comfortable . 
win twenty-three time europe , notably quartet success open championship , come 1949 , 1950 , 1952 1957 . 
first many south africans subsequently win major championship include gary player , ernie els , retief goosen , trevor immelman nick price . 
time locke also play many part world . 
1955 win australian open hold gailes golf club queensland , later rate one best course ever play . 
1959 , locke involve serious car accident , subsequently suffer migraine eye problem put end competitive career . 
locke elect world golf hall fame 1977 . 
first member come either united states united kingdom . 
die johannesburg , south africa 1987 . 
