terence young bear july 24 , 1952 politician ontario , canada . 
elect ride oakville 2008 federal election , conservative candidate . 
previously , young progressive conservative member legislative assembly ontario 1995 1999 . 
young fourth five son canon george v. young rector st. annes ' anglican church toronto 's west end . 
youth young perform radio tv commercial age thirteen share billing canadian icon william hutt frances hyland manitoba theatre centre william kinsolving play nicholas romanoff . 
young 's mother judith member massey family , prominent business leader philanthropist toronto area . 
young run canadian house commons independent candidate 1974 federal election , toronto ride parkdale . 
receive 144 vote , finish well behind winner stanley liberal party . 
young still student time , say first exposure politics great experience . 
receive b.a. political social science york university may 1975 attend osgoode hall law school one year , choose pursue business career . 
return political life , young manager bell canada . 
elect provincial legislature 1995 election , defeat incumbent liberal barbara sullivan vote halton centre amid tory sweep region . 
serve parliamentary assistant minister education three year responsibility college university , later parliamentary assistant finance minister ernie eves , later become premier ontario , chair legislative assembly finance committee . 
young part \ `` family value caucus \ '' progressive conservative party , group frequently marginalize mike harris government . 
group often classify socially conservative , however young however disagree \ `` social conservative \ '' label . 
legislator , young criticize halton school board approve joyce carol oates 's novel , foxfire : confession girl gang , grade twelve english , wish parent consider obscene overly violent . 
1996 , harris government reduce number provincial riding 130 103 . 
result , mpp party force compete one another re-nomination . 
young run progressive conservative nomination new constituency oakville , lose fellow mpp gary carr , 651 vote 432 . 
young 's fifteen-year old daughter vanessa die 2000 take johnson & johnson prescription drug . 
young become consumer advocate incident , fight stringent protective system canada . 
found drug safety canada advocate safe prescription drug , also initiate hundred million dollar class action law suit johnson & johnson health canada 2000 . 
young endorse frank klees 's bid become leader ontario pc party 2004 . 
young co-founder vice-chair ontario association former parliamentarians . 
president policy alliance inc www . 
. 
elect canadian house commons 2008 federal election , defeat liberal incumbent bonnie brown oakville . 
april 2009 young 's book \ `` death prescription \ '' publish independent publisher key porter hardcover format . 
april 20 , 2009 young place private member 's motion order paper parliament canada would create independent drug agency canada similar nuclear safety agency transportation safety board , focus soley prescription drug safety . 
young also begin cross canada tour promote book motion take ottawa oakville winnipeg , vancouver august 2009 john 's newfoundland . 

