norman \ `` norm \ '' kelly bear august 11 , 1941 canadian politician . 
city councillor toronto , ontario represent one two municipal ward make jurisdiction scarborough \ . 
kelly trained historian . 
study canadian political history university western ontario undergraduate carleton queen \ u2019 university post-graduate . 
among important accomplishment , kelly undertake two-year research project two best-selling book field canadian history : national dream last spike , write pierre berton . 
kelly win governor general 's award work national dream . 
national dream also transfer television cbc popular , award-winning documentary series name . 
kelly later become history teacher upper canada college , private school toronto , first enter politics alderman borough council scarborough , suburb toronto . 
kelly serve 1974 1980 . 
elect federal member parliament mp scarborough centre 1980 election , defeat progressive conservative pc incumbent diane stratas . 
kelly twice appoint parliamentary secretary : first , ministry supply services president treasury board . 
latter capacity , kelly give responsibility guide government \ u2019 reorganization crown corporation , bill c-124 , house commons committee . 
kelly also appoint 1983 special committee visible minority canadian society . 
committee charge responsibility research status visible minority canadian society . 
report , equality , contain 80 ground breaking recommendation aim protect visible minority culture canada integrate member canadian mainstream . 
kelly defeat 1984 election , lose pc candidate pauline . 
1985 , run mayor scarborough , lose incumbent gus harris . 
office , work real estate agent , first royal lepage company . 
attempt win liberal nomination prior 1988 election , quit race odysseus emerge front runner . 
instead , decide run mayor , time lose joyce trimmer 4,000 vote . 
prior 1993 federal election , try liberal nomination , time lose john . 
1994 municipal election , elect metro toronto council ward , defeat michael thompson . 
emerge one right wing member council , note attempt eliminate funding multiculturalism program mock council . 
kelly take stance view multicultural program segregate rather integrate diverse member canadian community . 
national post newspaper endorse , perhaps somewhat jest , \ `` solid anti-communist . 
toronto need representation bulwark left . 
\ '' also become one earliest advocate merge city toronto five suburb , idea push chair intergovernmental affairs committee . 
\ `` megacity \ '' create , elect new toronto city council . 
2000 toronto municipal election , redistricting merge kelly ' ward , lead bitter election battle two , kelly easily win . 
firm ally new city 's first mayor , mel lastman , relation lastman 's successor , david miller , less friendly . 
present , councillor kelly member follow committee agency : executive committee planning growth management committee chair scarborough community council canadian national exhibition association enterprise toronto advisory group federation canadian municipalities film , television 
