ken schaffer bear october 19 , 1947 inventor , late 1960 , publicist rock star jimi hendrix , steve tyler aerosmith , todd rundgren , ted nugent , alice cooper comet kohoutek . 
period , schaffer design custom build guitar john lennon use last album , double fantasy introduce john lennon 's favorite movie , alexandro jodorowsky 's el topo ignite cult midnight movie . 
el topo 1970 film lifelong amateur radio enthusiast , 1970 invent dynamic range wireless microphone wireless guitar system . 
make thousand microphone $ 4,400 . 
among first band adopt schaffer system rolling stones . 
mick jagger use dance around stage , nearly every major touring rock group 70s 80s . 
make schaffer mic wireless guitar system worth much keep rock star electrocute kiss switch schaffer band member seriously injured , excellent reliability sound quality . 
nasa become customer use schaffer 's innovative preprocessing circuit improve astronaut voice communication . 
1980s , schaffer , along engineer warren musselman , develop complex satellite tracking system make possible us agency monitor internal television then-soviet union . 
system tap soviet molniya satellite constellation , carry moscow television far north . 
system base red 3 meter dish roof columbia university 's international affair institute manhattan allow soviet study graduate student watch live russian television . 
schaffer conceive execute project fledgling discovery channel devote week carry russian tv , win national cable television association 's golden ace award . 
schaffer fall love russia start company bring modern voice communication western company operate , later sell company comsat corporation , biggest player satellite communication , part lockheed martin . 
concurrently , schaffer conceive project bring iconic boris , often describe \ `` bob dylan russia \ '' west , record album columbia records produce dave stewart feature eurythmics 's annie lennox pretenders ' chrissie hynde . 
year-long odyssey document director michael apted , film schaffer st. petersburg , moscow , london , new york los angeles film , ` long way home . ' 
2003 , schaffer invent device call , enable customer access cable tv channel anywhere world via broadband internet connection . 
concept introduce become know ` ' , oppose ` timeshift ' . 
first unit purchase musician sting , use especially follow team , newcastle united tour . 
schaffer 's ex-wife , alla , popular russian tv actress , appear sopranos , play uncle junior 's one-legged russian nurse end sex tony soprano . 
