charles h. bennett ibm fellow ibm research . 
bennett 's recent work ibm concentrate re-examination physical basis information , apply quantum physics problem surround information exchange . 
play major role elucidate interconnection physics information , particularly realm quantum computation , also cellular automaton reversible computing . 
discover , gilles brassard , concept quantum cryptography one founding father modern quantum information theory . 
bear 1943 new york city , earn b.s. chemistry brandeis university 1964 , receive phd harvard 1970 molecular dynamics study computer simulation molecular motion david turnbull berni alder . 
next two year continue research late rahman argonne laboratory . 
join ibm research 1972 , build work ibm 's rolf landauer show general-purpose computation perform logically thermodynamically reversible apparatus ; 1982 propose re-interpretation maxwell 's demon , attribute inability break second law thermodynamic cost destroy , rather acquire , information . 
also publish important paper estimation free energy difference two system , bennett acceptance ratio method . 
collaboration gilles brassard \ de \ develop practical system quantum cryptography , know , allow secure communication party share secret information initially , base uncertainty principle . 
help john smolin , build world 's first work demonstration quantum cryptography 1989 . 
research interest include algorithmic information theory , concept information randomness develop term relation universal computer , analogous use universal computer define intrinsic complexity \ `` logical depth \ '' physical state time require universal computer simulate evolution state random initial state . 
1993 bennett brassard , collaboration , discover \ `` quantum teleportation \ '' , effect complete information unknown quantum state decompose purely classical information purely non-classical correlation , send two separate channel , later reassemble new location produce exact replica original quantum state destroy send process . 
, work smolin , , ibm 's divincenzo , collaborator , introduce several technique faithful transmission classical quantum information noisy channel , part larger recently active field quantum information computation theory . 
bennett fellow american physical society member national academy sciences . 
award 2008 harvey prize technion 2006 rank prize . 
