sylvan nathan goldman 1898 - november 27 , 1984 american businessman inventor shopping cart , pair large wire basket connect tubular metal arm four wheel . 
introduce device june 4 , 1937 , humpty dumpty supermarket chain oklahoma city , owner . 
assistance mechanic name fred young , goldman construct first shopping cart , base design wooden folding chair . 
build metal frame add wheel wire basket . 
another mechanic , arthur , develop method mass produce cart invent assembly line capable form welding wire . 
cart award patent number april 9 , 1940 , title , \ `` folding basket carriage self-service stores \ '' . 
advertise invention part new \ `` basket carry plan . 
\ '' invention catch immediately . 
man find effeminate ; woman find suggestive baby carriage . 
\ `` push last baby buggy , \ '' offend woman inform . 
hire several male female model push new invention around store demonstrate utility , well greeter explain use , shopping cart become extremely popular goldman become multimillionaire collect royalty every shopping cart united states patent run . 
goldman serve world war food france . 
war open goldman brother 's wholesale fruit produce breckenridge , texas brother alfred . 
year later , live california , sylvan alfred intrigue new type grocery store offer product one roof supermarket . 
brother return oklahoma order bring new way shopping home state . 
sylvan serve president alfred vice president sun grocery company , open store april 3 , 1920 , 1403 east fifteenth street tulsa , oklahoma . 
one year later twenty-one sun grocery market throughout state . 
although goldman 's greatest contribution invent shopping cart , eighth grade education revolutionize supermarket retailing america today . 
invention goldman include grocery sacker , folding basket carrier , handy milk bottle rack . 
goldman also invent baggage cart . 
fortune goldman wife margaret \ `` babe \ '' katz also know great philanthropist ; patron art contribute many work art oklahoma institution . 
give time money national conference christian jew southwest center human relations university oklahoma . 
receive many honor , include honorary chief pawnee indian tribe 1950 , eleanor roosevelt humanities award 1965 , distinguished service citation university oklahoma 1971 , induction oklahoma hall fame 1971 , honorary doctor law degree oklahoma city university 1974 . 
january 1983 oklahoma blood institute move sylvan n. goldman center , located 1001 north lincoln boulevard name goldman , donate $ 1.5 million center . 
goldman invest fortune grocery store throughout us real estate mostly oklahoma , puerto rico . 
