raoul martial \ `` rod \ '' dedeaux february 17 , 1914 -- january 5 , 2006 american college baseball coach compile arguably greatest record coach sport 's amateur history . 
bear new orleans , louisiana , dedeaux attend university southern california , play professional baseball briefly -- appear two game shortstop 1935 brooklyn dodgers -- turn play coaching semi-pro amateur rank . 
meanwhile , 1936 father invest $ 500 start trucking firm , dart dedeaux automotive repair transit enterprises , successfully build thriving regional business . 
college coach , sam barry , enter united states navy world war ii , recommend dedeaux take team 1942 war 's duration . 
upon barry 's return 1946 , serve co-coach , dedeaux run team year barry finish basketball season . 
arrangement successful usc win college world series 1948 . 
barry 's death september 1950 , dedeaux become sole coach proceed build early success establish strongest program collegiate baseball . 
prior retirement 1986 , dedeaux 's team win 10 additional cws title -- coach win 3 1997 -- include five consecutively 1970-74 . 
also develop dozen future major leaguer , include ron fairly , buford , tom seaver , dave kingman , roy smalley , fred lynn , mark mcgwire , randy johnson . 
throughout usc career , accept nominal salary $ 1 per year , trucking business supply substantial income . 
turn numerous offer major league coaching position , include invitation los angeles dodgers manager tommy lasorda join staff , always reject due preference college game desire remain close family . 
serve coach united states team 1964 summer olympics tokyo , japan , 1984 summer olympics los angeles , baseball demonstration sport prior elevation full medal status 1988 . 
retire winningest coach college baseball history record , rest life remain beloved annual presence college world series omaha , nebraska . 
induct american baseball coaches association 's hall fame 1970 , 1999 name coach century collegiate baseball magazine . 
usc play home game bovard field , dedeaux become know \ `` houdini bovard \ '' come-from-behind home-field win . 
1974 usc construct new baseball field name dedeaux field honor coach . 
dedeaux also serve baseball coach actor ballplayer film field dream 1989 . 
phil alden robinson , direct film , say follow dedeaux : \ `` ballplayer movie prep film rod dedeaux . 
coach usc many year , wonderful man , full life , energetic , supportive , really give cheerful time , great spirit around . 
one day , setup say , ` hey , coach , position play ? ' 
say , ' shortstop . ' 
say , ` really , could -- good ? ' 
get quiet , say , ' could field ball . ' 
say , ` could hit ? ' 
say , ' could hit ball . ' 
strangely quiet . 
say , ` well , come never play major ? ' 
say , ' . ' 
say , ` really ? ' 
dedeaux say ` yes , . ' 
forget year say . 
start shortstop brooklyn dodgers . 
play one game , break back , end career . 
blanch . 
say , ` god , doc graham . ' 
say , ` right . ' 
say , ` ever think , \ `` gee , career might . 
\ 
