andy paley note record producer musician active since late 1960 's . 
work include stint producer note musician madonna , ramones , jonathan richman , debbie harry , brian wilson jerry lee lewis . 
also musician singer . 
begin perform around 1969 drummer boston band catfish black , also include future modern lovers member jerry harrison also later talk head ernie brooks . 
around 1971 , band rename sidewinders , following year record release album , produce lenny kaye feature song write sing paley . 
sidewinders break mid-1970 . 
paley play elliott murphy 's album night light , also perform jonathan richman break-up original modern lovers . 
1976 andy paley brother jonathan form paley brothers . 
band tour extensively release self-titled album 1978 , also contribute track soundtrack ramones ' movie rock 'n' roll high school . 
also groom teen heartthrob stardom , feature extensively teen magazine rock scene 16 . 
next turn attention record production . 
1977 , start producer , hire reform shangri-las go studio . 
accord paley , get job much production skill , rather interview , say favorite shangri-las song \ `` streets \ '' ... also happen favorite group . 
although none track record session would surface , paley say trio enjoy studio . 
also lead band back shangri-las cbgb show summer . 
1979 paley play guitar jonathan richman 's album back life , continue perform richman later incarnation modern lovers , produce many recording , 1980 . 
1988 produce brian wilson 's comeback solo album , continue work wilson unreleased material 1990s . 
later collaborate producer madonna , jerry lee lewis , . 
producer , performer composer part soundtrack movie release spongebob squarepants . 
produce soundtrack dick tracy 1990 walk moon 1999 write original music traveller 1997 , star bill paxton . 
2009 contribute soundtrack world 's greatest dad direct bobcat goldthwait star robin williams . 
also write musical score season one showtime 's l word . 
currently , also lead three-piece andy paley orchestra , provide musical accompaniment thrilling adventure & supernatural suspense hour , theater group los angeles perform original stage production style old radio melodrama . 
