ralph emerson mcgill february 5 , 1898 \ february 3 , 1969 , american journalist , best know editor publisher atlanta constitution newspaper . 
win pulitzer prize editorial writing 1959 . 
mcgill bear near attend school mccallie school chattanooga , tennessee . 
attend vanderbilt university nashville , tennessee , graduate suspend senior year write article student newspaper critical school 's administration . 
get job work sport department nashville banner soon work way sport editor . 
1929 , move atlanta , georgia become assistant sport editor atlanta constitution . 
want move sport serious news , get assignment cover first cuban revolt 1933 cover nazi takeover austria 1938 . 
article earn spot editor editorial page constitution , use highlight effect segregation . 
response , many angry reader send threat letter mcgill . 
act threat burn cross night front lawn , fire bullet window home leave crude bomb mailbox . 
late 1950 , mcgill become syndicate columnist , reach national audience . 
become friend president john f. kennedy lyndon johnson , act civil rights advisor behind scene envoy several african nation . 
addition pulitzer prize , receive elijah parish lovejoy award well honorary doctor law degree dozen university college , include harvard , presidential medal freedom 1964 . 
1963 publish book south southerner well several anthology newspaper article . 
mcgill die heart attack , two day 71st birthday . 
death \ `` ralph mcgill boulevard \ '' ralph mcgill middle school name atlanta . 
honor , mcgill lecture hold annually grady school journalism university georgia , feature nationally recognize journalist . 
personal papers donate emory university available special collection area emory university library . 
ralph mcgill mention name martin luther king jr 's \ `` letter birmingham jail \ '' one enlighten white person understand sympathize civil rights movement time letter april , 1963 . 
mcgill 's role campaign segregation depict michael braz 's opera , scholar siege , compose centenary georgia southern university premiere 2007 . 
