james scott \ `` jim \ '' peterson , pc bear july 30 , 1941 retired canadian politician former minister international trade . 
bear ottawa , ontario , dcl mcgill university , master law columbia university , bachelor art bachelor law university western ontario . 
well diploma l'academie de droit international hague la sorbonne paris . 
member parliament house commons represent ride willowdale toronto . 
peterson first run candidate liberal party 1979 election defeat . 
run 1980 election win , serve backbencher pierre trudeau parliamentary secretary 1981 1983 . 
support john turner 's successful bid succeed trudeau 1984 liberal leadership contest lose seat 1984 election . 
return parliament result 1988 election re-elect subsequent election retirement 2007 . 
1997 , jean chr \ appoint ministry secretary state international financial institutions , peterson send back backbench 2002 . 
return serve cabinet paul martin , peterson long support . 
peterson first come public attention 1974 help ballet star mikhail baryshnikov defect soviet union performance bolshoi ballet toronto . 
jim peterson brother former ontario premier david peterson . 
another brother , tim peterson , elect legislative assembly ontario liberal , defeat progressive conservative . 
sister-in-law , deb matthews liberal member provincial parliament . 
mention potential interim leader liberal party canada , follow resignation paul martin , however , bill graham name position . 
peterson take critic 's portfolio liberal party 's shadow cabinet form graham martin 's permanent successor , st \ dion . 
brother david support michael ignatieff liberal party leadership . 
march 8 , 2007 , peterson announce would candidate next federal election . 
former liberal party canada leadership candidate martha hall findlay appoint liberal candidate ride . 
june 20 , 2007 , announce resignation house commons , take effect july 12 . 
november 20 , 2007 , peterson join international law firm fasken martineau dumoulin counsel . 
december 20 , hon. sandra pupatello , ontario 's minister economic development trade , appoint peterson ontario 's chief negotiator trade , investment labor mobility negotiation . 
