adolf cluss july 14 , 1825 \ july 24 , 1905 german-born american immigrant become one important architect washington , d.c. , late 19th century , responsible design numerous school notable public building capital . 
bear 1825 heilbronn kingdom w \ south-west germany . 
father master builder , young cluss set itinerant carpenter leave heilbrunn age nineteen . 
travels , meet become friend karl marx supporter communist principle time political revolutionary ferment germany . 
join communist league become member mainz worker council . 
failure german revolutionary movement 1848 lead leave germany twenty-three , along emigrate united states time . 
united states , continue political activity 1850 , maintain extensive correspondence marx engels write publish political article german-american community . 
settle washington , d.c. , cluss also begin build highly successful practice engineer architect . 
follow decade , 1860s 1890s , responsible design score major public building , include least eleven school , well market , government building , museum , residence church . 
1872 , become city engineer member board public works , oversee civic improvement transform washington 1870s : street paving , sewer construction , planting thousand street tree . 
cluss 's schoolhouse design particularly innovative influential , though two red-brick school masterpiece remain , franklin school sumner school downtown washington . 
franklin school complete 1869 earn washington public school system medal progress . 
design four major building national mall , include still-standing smithsonian art industries building . 
build six house worship , include calvary baptist church , located 777 8th street , n.w. two city 's major food market , center market eastern market , build design , latter survive restore use disastrous 2007 fire . 
flagship store lansburgh 's open 1882 . 
cluss also active builder mansion washington elite . 
1880 , hire create become washington 's first apartment building , portland flats , ornate , , creation south side thomas circle . 
almost cluss ' residential creation demolish \ flats , instance , tear 1962 make way office building . 
red brick cluss ' favorite building material ; , early communist sympathy , lead dub \ `` red architect \ '' man later life become confirm republican . 
descriptive list cluss 's known building interactive map show location find . 
