hugh loebner bear march 26 , 1942 notable sponsor loebner prize , embodiment turing test . 
american inventor , hold six united states patents . 
also outspoken social activist decriminalization prostitution . 
loebner establish loebner prize 1990 . 
pledge give $ 100,000 solid gold medal first programmer able write program whose communicative behavior fool human think program human . 
competition repeat annually host various organization . 
within field artificial intelligence , loebner prize somewhat controversial ; prominent critic , marvin minsky , call publicity stunt help field along . 
loebner quite open visit prostitute . 
1994 , campaign official new york city arrest customer prostitute , write opposing letter new york times , publish . 
1996 author magna carta sex work manifesto sexual freedom , denounce criminalization consensual sexual act , ask like mind people join protest play 69 sex position . 
interview say believe old young attractive woman interested ; would sex money . 
compare oppression prostitute customer oppression alan turing face homosexual behavior . 
loebner also like point , unlike solid gold medal loebner prize , gold medal olympic games solid gold , make silver cover thin layer gold . 
loebner hold ph.d. demography university massachusetts , amherst . 
divorce , live new york city crown industries , manufacturer crowd control stanchion brass fitting , major sponsor loebner prize us . 
fascinate alan turing 's imitation game , consider create system pass , loebner realize even succeed develop computer could pass turing test , avenue exist prove . 
letter december 30 , 1988 dr. robert epstein , loebner authorize dr. epstein move forward contest , refer turing test , loebner write : \ `` robert , year come , may richer prize , prestigious contest , gad , always oldest . 
\ '' establish loebner prize , introduce turing test wider public , stimulate interest science . 
remain hugh loebner \ u2019 desire advance ai , turing test serve tool measure state art : \ `` nobility endeavor . 
human succeed develop artificial intellect measure scope intellect \ '' . 
