kevin michael mcmahon bear september 21 , 1953 cleveland , ohio musician , singer , songwriter long-standing band lucky pierre prick . 
mcmahon begin record pop group lucky pierre 1974 , release number vinyl singles though 1981 . 
lucky pierre initially consist : john - lead guitar , brian dempsey - drum , dennis devito - bass mcmahon guitar & lead vocal . 
1976 , tom lash join band bass guitar , devito move guitar . 
tom miller play keyboard time . 
1977 , dempsey leave band replace drummer gary shay , drummer dave zima . 
many live show , tom miller john leave cleveland california devito switch lead guitar . 
many showcase concert , radio broadcast , 45rpm singles follow . 
lucky pierre continue four-piece outfit , sometimes augment horn vocalist perform array song style mcmahon develop . 
mcmahon go hiatus 1988 , lucky pierre record communiqu \ ep , lash , zima , friend trent reznor make guest appearance . 
1988 line-up lucky pierre include trent reznor , manage exotic manager john malm , jr. . 
lucky pierre disband recording communiqu \ , mcmahon remain contact reznor malm . 
early 1990s , mcmahon begin second musical project , industrial rock band prick . 
prick eventually sign reznor malm 's nothing records label . 
band 's debut album release 1995 , reznor produce four album 's ten track . 
prick 's lead single , \ `` animal , \ '' receive high rotation muchmusic mtv , prick open us leg nine inch nails david bowie 's outside tour . 
nothing 's parent label , interscope records , drop prick mcmahon could record follow-up . 
wake setback , mcmahon go another years-long hiatus music . 
prick reemerge 2002 , independently release mcmahon internet , feature many song slate second , cancel nothing records album . 
two year later , mcmahon release lucky pierre 's first full album , think , sell album independently online . 
october 2008 , mcmahon re-emerge hard-rock track \ `` runaway brain , \ '' time moniker sic . 
song available fansite . 
. 
net limited time , note mp3 's note , \ `` prick treat - derail thing come - november ... depend speed green \ '' . 
interview release march 2009 fansite . 
. 
net , mcmahon talk possible future release , also announce . 
. 
com online , merchandise re-release think new packaging sale , maybe re-mastered track lucky pierre . 
june 21 , 2009 , . 
com go live , offer digital download , new vintage shirt hat , new cd . 
allude previously , think reissue , fear blue sic album ep also release . 
music obtain package feature prick live cd available part package . 
