lewis baltz visual artist , philosopher , well know photographer become icon new topographic movement late 1970 . 
baltz graduate san francisco art institute 1969 hold master fine art degree claremont graduate school . 
receive several scholarship award include scholarship national endowment art 1973 , 1977 , john simon guggenheim memorial fellowship 1977 , us-uk bicentennial exchange fellowship 1980 , charles brett memorial award 1991 . 
2002 lewis baltz become professor photography european graduate school saas-fee . 
baltz live paris venice . 
entire work focus photography , search beauty desolation destruction . 
baltz image describe architecture human landscape , office , factory , parking lot . 
picture reflection control , power , influence human . 
minimalistic photograph trilogy ronde de nuit , docile bodies , politics bacterium , picture void , 1974 capture anonymity relationship inhabitation , settlement , anonymity new industrial parks near irvine , california 1974 . 
move europe late 1980 start use large color print . 
several book article feature creation include geschichten von und macht , slavica perkovic . 
scalo , zurich new york , 1986 . 
photographic series , include site technology 1989-92 , depict clinical , pristine interior hi-tech industry government research centre , principally france japan . 
book exhibition , \ `` topographic work \ '' , new industrial parks , nevada , san quentin point , candlestick point 84 photograph document public space near candlestick park , ruin natural detritus human intervention , expose crisis technology man , enormous influence generation photographer try define objectivity role artist photograph . 
story death newport produce book cd-rom 1995 . 
work present numerous exhibition around world , appear museum museum modern art , paris , museum contemporary art , helsinki , san francisco museum modern art whitney museum american art , new york . 
write many journal , contribute regularly l'architecture d'aujourd ` hui . 
