robert james manion , pc , mc november 19 , 1881 , pembroke , ontario - july 2 , 1943 , ottawa leader conservative party canada 1938 1940 . 
irish catholic descent , manion study medicine queen 's university , kingston , ontario edinburgh settle hometown fort william , ontario parent live since 1888 . 
1915 , enrol canadian army medical corps . 
attach 21st canadian battalion , award military cross heroism battle vimy ridge . 
elect canadian house commons conscription election 1917 unionist member parliament mp fort william , ontario . 
member liberal party war , support conservative prime minister robert borden 's union government form result conscription crisis 1917 . 
manion remain conservative party war . 
new prime minister , arthur meighen , appoint minister soldier ' civil re-establishment 1921 . 
spend 1920s opposition bench , except month 1926 serve minister second meighen administration , include position postmaster-general . 
follow federal election 1930 , new conservative prime minister r. b. bennett appoint manion minister railways canals . 
however , economic crisis great depression destroy bennett government , manion , many , lose seat 1935 election . 
accord historian roy , manion 's loss partly attributable failure cultivate fort william ride . 
despite seat , manion win 1938 conservative leadership convention backing \ `` improbable coalition \ '' orange order delegate ontario delegate quebec . 
conservative party member hope catholicism marriage french-canadian , yvonne desaulniers , would help party quebec perception tories anti-french anti-catholic orangemen hurt prospects . 
manion enter house commons by-election 1938 london . 
subsequently campaign conscription despite fact join unionists 1917 favor draft . 
manion move conservatives left criticize socialist due call action unemployment desire , word , \ `` bring greater measure social justice citizen . 
\ '' hope come power due unpopularity king government brokerage agreement union nationale premier quebec , maurice duplessis promise federal fund unemployment relief quebec exchange union nationale 's support conservative federal election . 
onset world war ii re-emergence conscription issue canada stymie manion 's hope . 
1939 quebec election federal liberal warn duplessis government 's support manion would lead conscription , despite manion 's claim oppose mandatory military enlistment . 
defeat government maurice duplessis quebec dash manion 's hope build electoral alliance conservative premier . 
well , stand conscription turn much tory base ontario leader . 
king promise manion would call election due war reverse pledge call march 1940 general election take manion 's tories surprise unprepared . 
campaign name \ `` national government \ '' platform form wartime coalition government . 
rename tories unable make gain 1935 result , manion fail win seat , lead resignation party leader two month later . 
manion subsequently appoint director civilian air raid defense . 
die 1943 . 
