thomas gibson crawford march 22 , 1814 -- october 10 , 1857 american sculptor . 
bear new york city irish parentage , son aaron mary gibson crawford . 
early year , school page , artist . 
proficiency study hinder exuberance fancy , take form drawing carving . 
love art lead , age 19 , enter new york city studio frazer , artist artificer marble . 
1834 go abroad promotion artistic study , summer 1835 take residence rome , life prove . 
sculptor become master friend . 
guidance , devote study antique live model . 
first ideal work group \ cerberus , \ u201d execute 1839 , purchase , year later , boston athenaeum , display museum fine art , boston . 
follow succession group , single figure , bas-relief , whose rapid production bear witness fertility well versatility genius . 
among \ eve \ u201d bust josiah quincy , 1900 boston athenaeum ; \ ganymede , \ u201d present boston museum fine art c. c. perkins , bronze statue beethoven , present gentleman boston music hall ; \ wood , \ u201d lenox library ; \ psyche \ u201d ; \ , \ u201d gallery late mrs. a. t. stewart ; indian girl ; \ jenny , \ u201d model daughter ; statue james otis , adorn chapel mount auburn cemetery , cambridge . 
1849 , visit country , receive state virginia order monument erect richmond . 
immediately return rome begin work , design star five ray , one bear statue historic virginian , patrick henry thomas jefferson among number . 
work surmount plinth , stand equestrian statue george washington . 
statue , model rome , cast munich foundry . 
crawford 's important work order federal government united states capitol washington . 
first among marble pediment bear life-size figure symbolical progress american civilization ; next order come bronze figure freedom triumphant war peace surmount dome ; last , , bronze door model various scene public life washington . 
prominent among crawford 's work also statue indian chief , much admire english sculptor gibson , propose bronze copy retain rome lasting monument . 
crawford 's health fail pressure great public work enumerate . 
politics liberal , religion protestant , character generous kindly , adverse discord , professional social . 
major accomplishment include figure dome united states capitol entitle freedom triumphant war peace , bronze door pediment statue senate wing . 
able begin bas-relief bronze door , afterwards complete w. h. rinehart . 
1844 , marry louisa cutler ward , sister julia ward howe , four child , include writer francis marion crawford mary crawford fraser a.k.a. mrs. hugh fraser . 
