john joseph hopfield bear july 15 , 1933 american scientist widely know invention associative neural network 1982 . 
commonly know hopfield network . 
john hopfield receive ba swarthmore college , ph. . 
d physics cornell university 1958 . 
spend two year theory group bell laboratories , subsequently faculty member university california , berkeley physics , princeton university physics , california institute technology chemistry biology princeton , howard a. prior professor molecular biology . 
35 year , also continue strong connection bell laboratories . 
award dirac medal ictp 2002 interdisciplinary contribution understand biology physical process , include proofread process biomolecular synthesis description collective dynamics compute attractor neural network , oliver buckley prize american physical society work interaction light solid . 
member national academy sciences , american philosophical society , american academy art sciences . 
president american physical society 2006 . 
influential papers \ `` contribution exciton complex dielectric constant crystals \ '' 1958 , describe ; \ transfer biological molecule thermally activate tunneling \ u201d 1974 , describe quantum mechanic long-range electron transfer ; \ `` kinetic proofreading : new mechanism reduce error biosynthetic process require high specificity \ '' 1974 ; \ `` neural network physical system emergent collective computational ability \ '' 1982 know hopfield network , d. w. tank , \ computation decision optimization problem \ u201d 1985 . 
current research recent papers chiefly focus way action potential timing synchrony use neurobiological computation . 
currently professor department molecular biology princeton university former president american physical society aps . 
previously teach princeton physics department california institute technology . 
undergraduate degree , physics , swarthmore college doctorate , also physics , cornell university direction albert overhauser . 
hopfield bear 1933 polish physicist john joseph hopfield physicist wife helen hopfield . 
helen older hopfield 's second wife . 
sixth hopfield 's child three child six grandchild . 
