anthony lewis bear march 27 , 1927 , new york city prominent liberal intellectual , write new york times op-ed page new york review books , among publication . 
previously columnist times . 
london bureau chief , washington , d.c. bureau , 1948-1952 times . 
work democratic national committee washington daily news . 
first pulitzer prize 1955 report u.s. government 's loyalty program , specifically dismissal abraham , navy employee inform nature accusation , accuser . 
lewis 's article lead employee 's reinstatement . 
story fictionalize movie \ `` three brave men \ '' star ernest borgnine ray milland . 
win second pulitzer prize 1963 coverage united states supreme court . 
frequently write court matter constitutional law . 
lewis teach columbia university 's graduate school journalism since mid - '70 , hold school 's james madison chair first amendment issues since 1982 . 
lecture harvard 1974 1989 visit lecturer several college university , include university arizona , california , illinois , oregon . 
anthony lewis bear new york city ; attend horace mann school new york one classmate roy cohn harvard college , earn b.a. 1948 . 
harvard , editor harvard crimson . 
board director committee protect journalist . 
1983 , lewis receive elijah parish lovejoy award well honorary doctor law degree colby college . 
january 8 , 2001 , present presidential citizens medal president clinton . 
october 21 , 2008 , lewis honor national coalition censorship work area first amendment rights free expression . 
noam chomsky say anthony lewis \ `` far leave spectrum \ '' available mainstream media , thus useful discover tacit assumption underlie mainstream discussion . 
marry chief justice margaret h. marshall supreme judicial court massachusetts , formerly general counsel vice-president harvard university . 
write majority opinion goodridge v. department public health , legalize gay marriage massachusetts . 
three child first marriage : eliza , david , mia ; seven grandchild : zoe , miranda , lily , thea , evie , beatrice jack . 
lewis wife currently reside cambridge , massachusetts , longtime resident . 
lewis jewish . 
