jo davidson march 30 , 1883 -- january 2 , 1952 american sculptor russian-jewish descent . 
although specialize realistic , intense portrait bust , davidson require subject formally pose ; rather , observe speak . 
work primarily clay , final product typically cast terra-cotta , marble bronze . 
bear new york city , davidson work atelier hermon atkins macneil move paris study sculpture ecole des beaux-arts 1907 . 
return united states , befriend gertrude vanderbilt whitney , purchase davidson 's work . 
1911 davidson secure first solo gallery show ; 1934 win national academy design 's maynard prize , 1947 american academy art letter host retrospective feature nearly 200 work . 
one 250 sculptor exhibit 3rd sculpture international hold philadelphia museum art summer 1949 . 
among davidson 's commission design united states war industries badge , collection piece government france commemorate first victory troupes de marine bronze bust leader allies . 
portrait world leader celebrated personality gain international acclaim , include luminary : james barrie charlie chaplin madame chiang kai-shek joseph conrad \ cou \ also sculptor spare time clarence darrow arthur conan doyle albert einstein dwight d. eisenhower marshall ferdinand foch anatole france mahatma gandhi andr \ gide w. averell harriman frank harris dolores ib \ , aka \ `` la \ '' , robinson jeffers james joyce helen keller rudyard kipling robert m. la follette d. h. lawrence john marin e. w. marland andrew mellon general john j. pershing john d. rockefeller rogers posthumous franklin delano roosevelt ida rubinstein carl sandburg george bernard shaw lincoln steffens gertrude stein rabindranath tagore marshall tito h. g. wells walt whitman posthumous gertrude vanderbilt whitney woodrow wilson israel zangwill rogers ' statue full-body bronze portrait erect united states capitol 1939 . 
walt whitman 's portrait also full-body bronze , stand bear mountain state park , new york . 
davidson 's work national gallery art capitol building place two work , rogers oklahoma robert m. la follette wisconsin national statuary hall , bust two vice-president , henry a. wallace charles g. dawes , located washington , d.c. . 
also design statue henry d. thoreau , author walden . 
statue located walden pond state reservation concord , ma . 
2006 , smithsonian institution 's national portrait gallery open permanent exhibition , \ `` jo davidson : biographer bronze \ '' , showcase fourteen davidson work terracotta bronze , include portrait gertrude stein lincoln steffens . 
