walter jeremiah sanders iii bear september 12 , 1936 co-founder long-time ceo american semiconductor manufacturer advanced micro devices amd . 
jerry sanders iii grow south side chicago , illinois , raise paternal grandparent . 
attack beat street gang , leave cover blood priest call administer last rite , jerry recover . 
attend university illinois urbana-champaign academic scholarship pullman railroad car company . 
graduate bachelor 's degree engineering 1958 . 
graduation go work douglas aircraft company . 
eventually move motorola , fairchild semiconductor . 
become know one fairchild 's best sale people 1960 famous style flair . 
1968 sherman fairchild bring new management team fairchild semiconductor , lead c. lester hogan , vice president motorola semiconductor . 
troops motorola , also know \ `` hogan 's heroes \ '' , notoriously conservative , immediately clash sanders ' boisterous style . 
one architect silicon valley . 
1969 group fairchild engineer decide start new company , become advanced micro devices . 
ask jerry sanders join , say would , provide become president company . 
although cause dissension within group , agree , company found sanders president . 
sanders take trademark style position ceo amd . 
remain company 's consummate salesperson , always available come really tough negotiation close . 
love visit los angeles sale office wilshire blvd near hollywood stay beverly hills hilton . 
sanders always want make money , realize key earn wealth everyone else amd make lot money . 
grow wealthy , also lavish wealth generously employee . 
end company 's first $ 1 million quarter , sanders stand door company hand $ 100 bill every employee leave . 
every employee company get stock option , huge innovation time . 
sanders give company strong sale marketing orientation , successful even though often little behind competitor technology manufacturing . 
share success company employee , usually coincident growth target . 
one time , successful sale goal meet , company hold drawing among employee , immigrant production worker sunnyvale , california win $ 1000 month 20 year usd 240,000 . 
drive company hard time well . 
1974 , particularly bad recession almost break company , brilliant sale deal work sanders one company 's distributor save company . 
many difficult recession refuse lay employee , reaction rampant layoff occur fairchild earlier . 
instead cut employee , ask work saturdays get get new product sooner . 
1982 , responsible licensing deal intel make amd second source ibm intel microprocessor series , deal eventually make company real competitor intel . 
2000 , sanders recruit h \ ruiz , time president motorola 's semiconductor products sector , serve amd 's president chief operate officer , become heir apparent lead company upon sanders ' retirement . 
ruiz succeed sanders ceo 's seat 2002 . 
jerry sanders four child three first marriage one second , three adult one currently live wife , tawny , daughter paris . 
sanders create advanced micro devices ; personality company 's personality -- colorful 
