edward packard american author , addition work lawyer , essayist , poet . 
bear huntington , new york . 
graduate princeton university columbia law school . 
packard one pioneering author second-person fiction style make famous choose adventure series child 's book . 
packard write one first known book type , sugarcane island , 1969 see first publish 1976 . 
explain foreword book develop originally call \ `` adventure \ '' fiction format try think interesting bedtime story three child andrea , caroline wells , though series first publish short-lived since forget way line . 
sugarcane island , shipwrecked reader travel around titular island avoid danger every turn . 
many possible ending feature unfortunate demise , although escape island possible correct choice make . 
adventure sugarcane island exact prototype book bantam \ u2019 classic choose adventure series . 
1969 , 1970 , william morris agency submit book packard 's behalf several major publisher , reject . 
1976 packard able get book publish vermont crossroads press . 
review book , publishers weekly call \ `` original idea , well carry . 
\ '' 1977-1978 , lippincott publish packard 's next two book format , deadwood city third planet altair . 
cover alert reader unusual nature rubric \ `` choose adventure wild west \ '' \ `` choose adventure outer space . 
\ '' see potential packard 's idea \ `` interactive book \ '' , bantam books launch series call choose adventure 1979 . 
packard write first series , cave time , time-traveling story reader explore cavern portal different era . 
along r. a. montgomery , write many book contribute 60 title end series 1998 . 
packard keep series fresh change genre title . 
addition time travel story first book , follow next half-dozen story base suspense , spy fiction , space opera , western , mystery , science fiction , fantasy . 
packard even appear , case , choose adventure book hyperspace . 
packard author character appear many book . 
scientist name dr. nera vivaldi frequently appear friend reader character . 
seem ageless appear story set many time frame , include take reader outer space , although later book , appear age least fifty . 
aforementioned hyperspace , dr. vivaldi make appearance actually breach fourth wall . 
packard also conceive idea write prototype book three interactive series : space hawks escape , publish bantam books , earth inspectors , publish mcgraw hill . 
also write non-fiction book size scale space time , title imagine universe publish berkley 1994 , cite scientific american one best science book young reader year national public radio one best science book year . 
educational math book big number , publish millbrook 2000 , cite newsweek one best child 's book year . 
six book space hawks series , deal earth 's defense space alien , publish mainland china 2004 anticipation china 's first manned space mission . 
