jon bear 1938 american author editor previously interpreter translator . 
full name arthur jon , although normally use jon . 
bear new york city 1938 , live age twenty , study work europe numerous visit africa fifteen year , hong kong japan visit asian country ten year , five year u.s. washington , d.c. since 1991 france . 
study bronx high school science new york university , receive b.a. 1959 . 
obtain diploma interpreter \ u2019 school university geneva 1962 . 
study graduate institute international studies university geneva 1965 , grant licence en science politique et economique . 
1962 early 1990s work simultaneous interpreter translator numerous international organization , include united nations , world health organization , world meteorological organization , organization african unity , economic commission africa , u.s. state department . 
period , found manage interlingua language services , office hong kong , tokyo , manila new york . 
1970 , also free-lance journalist various newspaper magazine include asian business , oriental economist , nikkei , toyo keizai , south china morning post , financial times syndication , asian wall street journal weekly , etc. . 
special columnist mainichi daily news . 
reporting devote east asia , especially japan , korea , hong kong china , place well , earlier part africa . 
since 1973 , external editor scarecrow press lanham , maryland . 
work deal \ dictionary \ u201d roughly encyclopedia country broad topic . 
first series initiate african historical dictionary , join year series , include asia europe , literature art , war , historical period , u.s. diplomacy history , profession industry , . 
present roughly 400 historical dictionary print . 
periodically jon write book , first africa , asia . 
notable among book japanese economics , business , society . 
critical approach clash conventional wisdom 1980s 90s japan often consider \ \ u2019 economy . 
argue japanese management system far ideal , suffer inefficiency rigidity . 
also insist actual living standard japan much lower impression give statistics per capita gdp . 
could argue japan \ u2019 sluggish economic growth recent decade vindicate many view . 
despite controversy first publish , many similar idea part mainstream orthodox opinion japanese economy society . 
book part asia , especially hong kong , korea , taiwan , singapore china , equally controversial , opposite reason . 
write , common opinion \ case \ u201d hope whatsoever economic development . 
yet , already takeoff phase emphasize several hundred newspaper magazine article well several book . 
go pundit also result considerable criticism refusal better known periodical publish material . 
, course , question view correct pave way better understanding dynamics east asia . 
