elizabeth janeway october 7 , 1913 \ january 15 , 2005 american author critic . 
bear elizabeth ames hall brooklyn , new york , naval architect father homemaker mother fall hard time depression , lead end swarthmore college education help support family create bargain basement sale slogan graduate barnard college year later , 1935 . 
never supporter communist party even socialist , breathe progressive air 1930s new york city ; always laugh describe barnard friend meet physical education requirement improvise version internationale . 
intent become author , janeway take creative write class help hone craft . 
work first novel , walsh girls , meet marry eliot janeway , economic adviser president franklin delano roosevelt lyndon b. johnson know \ `` calamity janeway \ '' pessimistic economic forecast . 
elizabeth describe eliot \ `` intelligent man ever meet . 
\ '' mingle united states supreme court justice many luminary day . 
behest labor organizer walter reuther aid general motors worker mid-1940s strike company . 
janeway finally finish girl 1943 await birth second child ; sign contract publisher en route hospital . 
later novel , 1949 's question gregory , attract attention due eerie similarity gregory james forrestal , defense secretary acquaintance commit suicide . 
janeway deny connection fact fiction ; say real theme book \ `` liberal trouble \ '' . 
janeway write seven novel ; one , 1945 's daisy kenyon , make film star joan crawford . 
time janeway reviewer new york times . 
capacity introduce writer anthony powell serve champion controversial work lolita . 
also reviewer ms. magazine . 
1965-1969 serve president authors guild , address lawmaker copyright protection matter . 
many janeway 's early work focus family situation , occasional glimpse struggle woman modern society . 
early 1970s , begin explicitly feminist path work man 's world , woman 's place : study social mythology . 
befriend betty friedan , gloria steinem kate millet strongly favor abortion rights . 
janeway continue write go lecture tour . 
learn speak russian could visit soviet union . 
janeway judge national book award 1955 pulitzer prize 1971 . 
executive international pen . 
1981 commencement ceremony , alma mater barnard college award janeway highest honor , barnard medal distinction . 
elizabeth hall janeway die rye , new york home . 
survive two son : columbia graduate school journalism professor , boston globe editor former atlantic monthly executive michael janeway william hall janeway , 2006 vice chairman warburg pincus , well three grandchild great-granddaughter . 
star trek voyager 's captain janeway originally name elizabeth . 
name change nicole hiring \ bujold . 
later change kathryn , kate mulgrew hire . 
originally change avoid legal dispute discover prominent woman already hold name elizabeth janeway . 
