colin carrie bear april 11 , 1962 hamilton , ontario canadian politician . 
current member canadian house commons , represent ride oshawa province ontario conservative party canada . 
colin carrie elect house commons june 2004 . 
re-elect january 2006 , october 2008 . 
february 7 , 2006 , prime minister stephen harper appoint carrie post parliamentary secretary minister industry , time honourable maxime bernier , since august 2007 honourable jim prentice . 
carrie son late royal canadian navy officer , live several canadian city settle oshawa age fifteen . 
bachelor 's degree kinesiology university waterloo , award doctor chiropractic 1989 canadian memorial chiropractic college 1989 . 
work chiropractor private life , co-owner lakeview chiropractic wellness clinic . 
past executive member durham chiropractic society former chair spinal health week durham region , financial secretary oshawa knights columbus . 
carrie director oshawa progressive conservative party association , party 's 2004 merger canadian alliance form conservative party . 
elect oshawa 2004 federal election , defeat ndp candidate sid ryan liberal louise parkes close three-way race . 
close two-way race return ndp challenger sid ryan , carrie retain seat 2006 election part first conservative government elect canada almost 13 year . 
38th parliament , carrie serve member house commons stand committee health . 
election 2004 , reintroduce private member 's bill previously introduce james lunney end listing vitamin , mineral related product drug canadian food drug act . 
measure , endorse largely design freedom party activist trueman tuck , criticize remove safety provision regulation natural health product . 
supporter bill argue would benefit position small producer relative pharmaceutical industry . 
carrie serve chair conservative party canada \ u2019 cpc automotive caucus member cpc 's energy caucus seniors caucus . 
june 3 , 2008 general motors canada announce would stop produce light duty pick-up truck oshawa truck assembly plant 2009 . 
carrie , along mp minister finance jim flaherty , criticize member caw local 222 visit illegal blockade gm 's corporate headquarters oshawa , many federal , provincial , municipal politician . 
carrie also come repeat fire local 222 president chris buckley , tell union member carrie neglect call nearly two full day gm 's announcement . 
