thomas a. \ `` tom \ '' hockin , pc bear march 5 , 1938 academic , businessman former canadian politician . 
hockin bear go public school london , ontario . 
graduate university western ontario degree business , later attend harvard university graduate master 's degree public administration ph.d. political science . 
hockin subsequently join political science faculty fledgling york university rise full professor teaching canadian politics . 
later year , prior 1981 , also head master st. andrew 's college aurora , ontario , business affiliation sotheby 's auction house . 
addition , member ontario police commission . 
hockin , author 30 book , chapter article , produce two lead textbook canadian politics 1970 : two edition apex power , first publish 1971 , describe position prime minister central agency canadian government , government canada , publish 1976 , historical overview political analysis national political institution canada . 
hockin also specialist canadian parliamentary organization canadian foreign policy . 
hockin unsuccessful progressive conservative candidate 1981 by-election hold london west , come 900 vote behind liberal candidate . 
thereafter , teach business school university western ontario move residence london . 
win ride 1984 general election bring tories power brian mulroney . 
government backbencher two year appoint cabinet minister state finance . 
serve position 1989 become minister state small business tourism . 
january 1993 , hockin become full minister minister science , although retain portfolio . 
kim campbell succeed mulroney pc leader prime minister june 1993 , promote hockin minister international trade . 
promotion short-lived campbell government defeat fall general election . 
hockin defeat liberal sue barnes . 
leave politics , hockin active lobbyist mutual fund industry president chief executive officer investment funds institute canada . 
november 30 2009 , federal finance minister jim flaherty nominate hockin become executive director international monetary fund imf represent canada , ireland caribbean . 
mr. hockin succeed michael horgan become deputy minister finance . 
