simeon north july 13 , 1765 \ 25 , 1852 middletown , connecticut gun manufacturer , develop one america 's first milling machine possibly first 1818 play important role development interchangeable part manufacture . 
north bear berlin , connecticut prosperous family , able provide six son farm . 
north give farm berlin , gift enable marry lucy savage twenty-one . 
couple would five son three daughter . 
1795 norths purchase sawmill located brook run beside land . 
hire man help run , enlarged building house forge , begin manufacture scythe import steel . 
four year later , obtain contract make pistol begin add factory mill building . 
north 's brother-in-law , elisha cheney skilled clockmaker , trade learn father benjamin cheney uncle timothy cheney , two finest clockmaker connecticut . 
1810 elisha cheney move shop next waterpower site upstream north . 
although cheney train maker fine clock brass method , eli terry , clockmaker train clockmaker either timothy benjamin cheney , invent method mass-produce part wooden shelf , clock enable mass-produced use interchangeable part . 
cheney use new plant mass-produce part manufacturer turn emulation eli terry 's innovation . 
cheney know also produce screw small metal part mill pistol simeon north manufacture downstream . 
north generally credit invention milling machine \ first entirely new type machine invent america machine , replace filing , make interchangeable part practical . 
1813 , north sign government contract produce 20,000 pistol specify part lock completely interchangeable 20,000 lock \ first contract evidence exist . 
period north believe invent milling first entirely new type machine invent america machine able shape metal mechanically , replace filing , make interchangeable part practical . 
historian diana muir believe accomplish around 1816 . 
accord muir 's book reflection bullough 's pond , north \ `` first arm maker implement number machine production technique , yet cautiously halt pursuit mass-produced , interchangeable part \ '' whenever become apparent uneconomic . 
time , interchangeable part manufacture metal would continue combination machine-made part human skill fill part precise size high-end use military weapon interchangeable part worth pay high price . 
worth army campaign could cannibalize damaged weapon part . 
north 's business grow , move berlin nearby middletown . 
time , north send captain john h. hall , superintendent harpers ferry va. armory , introduce method achieve interchangeability . 
1828 , north receive contract produce 5,000 hall rifle part interchangeable produce harpers ferry . 
north 53-year contractual relationship war dept. . 
report charles h. fitch prepare 1880 census credit north key role develop manufacture interchangeable part . 
american precision . 
com . 
