doug ireland bear 1946 american journalist write politics , power , media , also gay issue . 
u.s. correspondent french weekly , also write weekly column , also contribute editor international affairs gay city news , largest lgbt weekly newspaper new york city u.s. ireland begin journalism career new york post still dorothy schiff consider liberal daily newspaper u.s. . 
live ten year france , write european politics culture various publication ; continue write frequently french european politics foreign affair . 
ireland assiduous promoter united states work prolific young french philosopher michel onfray . 
ireland columnist village voice , new york observer new york magazine , paris daily lib \ , among publication also contribute editor poz , monthly hiv-positive community , magazine times . 
severe critic left bill clinton 's presidency , ireland three year write syndicate clinton watch column . 
write extensively opposition two invasion iraq bush pere fil , u.s. invasion afghanistan . 
ireland part early 1960s american new left . 
member student democratic society , elect national council 1963 age 17 . 
also spend year sd national staff , assistant national secretary , 1963-64 . 
ireland drop sd 1966 devote time electoral organize vietnam war . 
staff member new jersey industrial union council afl-cio united auto workers region , 1967 help organize national labor assembly peace oppose vietnam war . 
early member dump johnson movement , ireland recruit staff presidential campaign man become anti-war candidate dump johnson movement , senator eugene mccarthy , ireland coordinate mid-atlantic region state . 
follow 1968 democratic national convention coordinate mccarthy 's labor support help organize demonstration convention delegate police brutality target anti-war demonstrator ireland go long island help run successful campaign congress allard lowenstein , consider principal founder dump johnson movement . 
stint journalist new york post community news service short-lived wire service provide news black , latino , minority racial , resign manage successful 1970 anti-vietnam war campaign congress bella abzug , make first left radical elect u.s. house representatives since vito marcantonio . 
also manage abzug 's 1976 campaign democratic nomination u.s. senator new york , abzug narrowly lose 0.10 per cent vote daniel patrick moynihan . 
, ireland return full-time journalism 1977 , remain journalist since . 
