orville h. carlisle july 6 , 1917 - august 1 , 1988 , shoe salesman norfolk , nebraska invent hobby would become know model rocketry . 
1953 , orville brother robert joint owner shoe store 420 norfolk ave. robert , model aviation enthusiast , demonstrate \ `` \ '' plane group park school around norfolk , demonstrate advance aeronautical technology since world war ii . 
want model missile use demonstration , illustrate rocketry technology would , year , lead beginning space age . 
call orville , whose hobby pyrotechnics , build rocket . 
1954 , orville develop first rocket , mark i. model airframe paper balsa fin mount long boom behind body . 
propulsion achieve handmade solid rocket engine burn dupont black powder propellant . 
engine use discard . 
technology go model rocket engine produce currently . 
carlisle 's second rocket , mark ii streamlined design still practical model rocket today . 
1958 , award u.s. patent design \ `` toy rocket \ '' . 
g. harry stine , article publish posthumously sport rocketry magazine , write u.s. patent office award carlisle patent design merely represent reasonable extension exist firework technology . 
prior launch sputnik 1957 , carlisle read article february 1957 issue popular mechanics g. harry stine , engineer work white sands missile range . 
article remark danger individual mostly teenage boy , inspire birth space age , might experiment rocket design end seriously hurt even die . 
carlisle realize solution problem \ `` \ '' model engine , box ship stine . 
stine see potential carlisle 's invention safe hobby , together form first model rocket company , model missiles , inc. , denver , colorado . 
carlisle offer two kit new company : mark ii scale model sound rocket . 
soon , demand model rocket kit engine exceed production capability , carlisle seek external supplier rocket engine . 
vernon estes , whose family firework company list first denver phone book , design machine capable produce rocket engine every 5.5 seconds . 
unwise business decision eventually force model missiles , inc. business , estes take production company , estes industries . 
orville carlisle become first member national association rocketry nar # 1 , found 1957 g. harry stine . 
later , serve member technical committee pyrotechnics national fire protection agency . 
two original \ `` \ '' model survive , preserve national air space museum . 
