oren bear july 3 , 1965 new york city american singer , guitarist , composer . 
found band elysian fields 1995 jennifer charles . 
father , jerry , b. 1928 , playwright , poet film editor , whose theater , hardware poet 's playhouse , fixture new york scene 1950s early 60 . 
oren 's first serious musical affiliation phillip johnston , bobby previte wayne horvitz , work bobby radcliff 's blues band 1980 . 
radcliff , oren back dr. john , otis rush johnny copeland , also paul butterfield shortly die . 
another close collaboration underground guitarist ron anderson , later san francisco 's molecules . 
1985 , friend ron 's introduce oren 101 crustaceans , whose leader , ed pastorini , oren 's oldest continue musical associate , later member elysian fields . 
oren consistently name ed pastorini favorite musical artist . 
attend new england conservatory 1987-88 , return , start gig frequently knitting factory houston st. previte , horvitz johnston play , many musician oren come play , like samm bennett , jazz passengers , marc ribot , , gary lucas innumerable . 
1990 oren meet jennifer , begin work together soon afterwards . 
ninety , oren make couple solo record knitting factory label , one feature medeski , martin wood , tour record member lounge lizards play bass , well many group project . 
ninety present , continue highly demand player , tour , record , play chocolate genius , lizz wright , meshell ndegeocello , martha wainwright , yerba buena either bass guitar . 
besides oren 's solo work , work elysian fields , also continue long-term association ed pastorini 101 crustaceans . 
another outlet oren 's music , one also feature jennifer charles , ` sephardic diaspora ' project la mar , play variety prestigious environment , include krakow jewish culture festival , perform 20,000 people . 
career highlight oren include name artist year greil marcus 2004 , musical direct randy newman tribute ucla 's royce hall hal willner , perform lou reed , emmylou harris , steve earle , bruce springsteen carnegie hall . 
