toby robins note canadian actress toby robins bear 13th march , 1931 . 
star hundred radio stage production canada late 1940s 1960 , work star jane mallett , barry morse , john drainie , ruth , james doohan , many . 
appear number television film role begin mid-1950 , host first-ever cbc television series , big revue 1952 . 
star stratford festival opposite christopher plummer ` cyrano de bergerac ' . 
also leading part ` measure measure ' james mason play likes william shatner . 
toronto play repertory lorne greene , mavor moore , harron . 
company found dora mavor moore , well play peter pan dora . 
also appear eli wallach . 
crest theatre play lead part ` cat hot tin roof ' , ` dream girl ' many . 
robins become popular television personality original member cast long-running cbc television series front page challenge 1957 , remain program 1961 . 
originally host alex barris later fred davis , front page challenge current event series disguise game show similar format american line ? 
. 
panelist guess news story person behind news story ask question guest ; game portion , guest interview informally panel . 
although robins initially criticize ask simple sometimes unintelligent question , soon find journalistic sea leg long hold alongside experienced journalist , include gordon sinclair pierre berton . 
ask run parliament lester pearson always joke probably would elect . 
leave series salary dispute 1961 replace future senator betty kennedy remain show demise 1990 . 
robins return show time time guest panellist . 
alex barris , book front page challenge : 25th anniversary cbc book , 1981 relate robins become major celebrity canada time series , extent see influential appear show pregnant , receive angry letter include death threat cover trademark brunette hair blonde wig show . 
knowlton nash 's book origin cbc say , ` toby robins quite simply beautiful woman star canadian television . ' 
1964 robins relocate london appear number film television production , include ' two-parter \ `` bringers wonder \ '' , later re-issue telefilm destination moonbase alpha 1981 play melina havelock 's ill-fated mother james bond film eye . 
london stage robins play star part two play royal shakespeare company : ` relapse ' ` latent heterosexual ' ; ` flip side ' , ` aspern papers ' vanessa redgrave christopher reeve . 
among outstanding thing film ` naked runner ' frank sinatra noel coward double bill television paul scofield . 
robins die breast cancer , aged 55 , 1986 . 
1991 , family found breakthrough toby robins breast cancer centre london , open 1999 hrh prince wales , aim produce coordinate program research tackle breast cancer . 
first dedicated breast cancer research center united kingdom , directly link one renowned cancer facility world , royal marsden hospital . 
