maude maggart bear amber mcafee maggart american cabaret singer recording artist perform throughout united states , often los angeles , san francisco , new york city . 
bear new york city broadway veteran brandon maggart diane mcafee sister fiona apple . 
age 20 , change stage name maude paternal great-great grandmother , maude apple . 
maggart 's brother , garett maggart , star tv series sentinel . 
addition , maternal grandparent millicent greene , dancer george white 's scandal , series 1920 's musical revue similar ziegfeld follies , johnny mcafee , vocalist big band era . 
grandparent meet tour johnny hamp orchestra . 
go fiorello h. laguardia high school music & art perform art , new york city 2001 cabaret debut los angeles prompt critic les traub write \ `` destine become major cabaret star . 
\ '' describe \ `` strikingly beautiful poise performer \ '' , widely praise vocal talent , intelligent , emotional , witty interpretation , well taste song selection primarily american popular song book feature well-known lesser-known work irving berlin , george gershwin , jerome kern , harold arlen , johnny mercer , vernon duke , rodgers hart . 
pay vocal tribute concert popular singer predecessor helen morgan , annette hanshaw , ruth etting , alice faye , helen forrest marshall barer . 
2006 concert feature established standard well exquisite rendition song jackson browne joan baez . 
first album look silver lining focus song 1920s . 
selection second album , sweet despair , range era style . 
third album feature repertoire standard unearth gem title maude maggart sings irving berlin . 
2007 release maude maggart live . 
latest recording collaboration brent spiner , entitle dreamland . 
embrace prot \ \ colleague performer michael feinstein andrea marcovicci , profile national public radio , new york times time new york appear show prairie home companion . 
2005 , receive backstage ira eaker award , tony award outstanding achievement cabaret manhattan association cabarets clubs m.a.c. award best female debut . 
perform regularly oak room algonquin hotel new york , gardenia hollywood plush room san francisco . 
