milton menasco january 22 , 1890 \ june 7 , 1974 american painter art director silent movie bear los angeles , california . 
bear 1890 los angeles , california , menasco begin art career early day hollywood describe work \ `` blood thunder \ '' poster entice movie fan theater watch first silent picture . 
commission mural painting palace fine art san francisco world 's fair 1915 . 
vivid use color graphic win recognition hollywood , work 33 film -- 29 time art director twice set director . 
1925 architecture set director original film base sir arthur conan doyle 's lose world . 
film receive accolade innovative art direction special effect . 
quote one review : \ `` harry o. hoyt credit director , host fellow auteur must take credit lose world 's still impressive thrill , especially effect work willis o'brien would later animate king kong 1933 wild set design milton menasco . 
\ '' complete list menasco 's film credit give . 
1925 menasco go new york city art director film make company turn advertising . 
also paint portrait water color horse ship time sell city 's gallery . 
world war ii , life magazine commission draw air sea battle chronicle war europe pacific theater . 
war , mr. menasco move kentucky devote entirely real love , horse portraiture . 
paint equine racing great nation help art direction thoroughbred record sporting news . 
wife purchase farm old brick house build 18th century serve many year studio . 
horsemen admire richness feeling reflect menasco 's painting , client include john hay whitney , isabel dodge sloane , president ronald reagan allaire du pont . 
one first large painting lucille markey depict nine horse calumet farm include citation , coaltown group track exercise boy . 
also paint secretariat owner , penny chenery . 
1953 menasco paint famous broodmare la troienne work title \ `` la troienne foal \ '' : eighteen vignette one painting together one frame \ '' john whitney . 
painting exhibit new york metropolitan museum art national museum race hall fame saratoga springs , new york . 
1999 sell estate betsey cushing roosevelt whitney sotheby 's auction house \ ,000 c. us$ 120,000 . 
1957 , menasco paint delta arthur b. hancock , jr. . 
artist explain although actual painting take three month complete , \ `` behind go training , study experience life . 
\ '' distinguishing mark menasco 's painting detail sky landscape background . 
perfect example detail apparent nashua , eddie arcaro , paint menasco hialeah park leslie combs ii . 
background show track ring palm tree . 
milton menasco die 1974 heart attack farm versailles , kentucky . 
