: morris cat 
subject : study critiques 
organization : at&t 
distribution : usa 
lines : 360 

open letter dr. paul h. blackman , research coordinator 
. 
nra official journal . 

dear sir : 
, use new england journal medicine 's publication 
small-scale study relate firearm conclusion 
draw quantum leap datum , follow announcement 
`` scientific '' finding . 
regularly release press 
without caveat riddle conclusory paragraph , 
often accompany editorial call attention finding . 
generally , least present interesting datum , however 
meaningless , study misinterpret statistics , ignore belittle 
serious study criminologist . 
latest effort -- `` handgun regulations , crime , assaults , homicide : 
tale two city , '' j.h. sloan , et al. , accompany 
editorial , `` firearms injuries : call science , '' two employee 
centers disease control november 10 , however , insult 
intelligence serious scholar field 
datum many flaw feel compel write length 
call attention various major minor failing , particular 
order . 
1 . 
author misleadingly cite wright , et al. ref . 
1 
support statement `` argue restrict 
access handgun could substantially reduce annual rate 
homicide . '' 
wright , et al. , fact study reject 
contention . 
2 . 
author pretend vancouver seattle 
similar city similar economic circumstance , history , 
demographic characteristic , like . 
fact , city 
different different demographic characteristic 
appear explain completely higher homicide rate 
seattle . 
city non-hispanic white 
non-hispanic white homicide rate report 
seattle vancouver . 
different back - 
grounds , problem , circumstance , behavior various 
ethnic minority explain difference homicide . 
3 . 
author pretend evaluate canada 's gun law , 
compare washington state 's . 
examine 
situation vancouver prior gun law take effect 
1978 . 
happen , three year prior 1975 - 
1977 , vancouver average 23 homicide per year , one-eighth 
involve handgun , ref . 
2 seven year nejm 
article 29 homicide per year , involve 
handgun . 
surely even medical profession recognize 
one must look see prior situation conclude 
change make difference ? 
would physician conclude 
patient benefit eat oat bran muffin day 
seven year cholesterol level 200 without 
least see 180 start regimen ? 
4 . 
author pick two medium-sized city evaluate national 
gun law . 
nothing learn tiny arbitrarily 
select sample . 
seattle appear select 
author rather scientific 
reason . 
would physician call something scientific study 
involve one experimental subject one dissimilar `` control '' ? 
different arbitrarily select city choose , opposite 
`` scientific '' conclusion would follow : vancouver 's homicide 
rate exceed `` wild west '' city texas 
el paso , corpus christi , austen , , colorado , colorado 
springs . 
ref . 
3 
5 . 
author fail clearly demonstrate firearm 
handgun `` far commonly seattle 
vancouver . '' 
use two surrogate approach pretend 
study availability . 
first 
effort compare number carry 
permit seattle number register handgun 
vancouver . 
number clearly understate number 
handgun seattle , count primarily protective handgun 
owner . 
second , however , tell nothing number 
handgun vancouver , count handgun 
part . 
difficult obtain handgun 
legally protection , registration figure 
meaningless . 
66,000 registered handgun new york 
city new york daily news , sept. 27 , 1987 . 
compare two , 
method suggest 930 handgun per 100,000 population 
new york city compare 960 vancouver , mean vancouver 
greater `` prevalence weapon '' new york city . 
second method measure gun density `` cook 's gun 
prevalence index , previously validate measure intercity 
difference . '' 
validation cook 
theory . 
ref . 
4 normally , second opinion seek 
different doctor . 
significantly , cook index 
base average percentage firearm involvement 
suicide homicide . 
author basically take 
measure misuse . 
unsurprisingly , gun misuse homicide 
42 % seattle , 14 % vancouver related gun misuse 
homicide plus suicide , divide two 41 % seattle , 12 % 
vancouver . 
author measure relative avail - 
ability firearm , handgun , seattle 
vancouver . 
6 . 
author misstate law washington 
canada . 
neglect mention significant fact 
washington wait period background check prior 
purchase handgun , provision exist canadian 
law owning carry handgun personal 
protection . 
author also make appear 
difficult get handgun legally canada actually 
case . 
7 . 
author ignore factor might explain 
difference crime rate , beyond vague mention 
penality provide law roughest estimate 
one particular offense -- homicide involve 
firearm . 
measure : difference number 
law enforcement officer ; aggressiveness make 
arrest gun law violation two jurisdiction ; arrest 
rate ; conviction rate ; actual sentence 
impose crime , violent crime without gun , 
gun law violation ; incarceration rate . 
whereas social 
scientist would attempt measure hold difference , 
author nejm `` tale two city '' fail even mention 
factor relate crime control . 
8 . 
author dismiss claim handgun effective 
means protection unless criminal kill . 

case . 
criminologist ref . 
5-8 find almost 
650,000 americans annually use handgun protection 
criminal , use gun protection reduce 
liklihood crime -- rape , robbery , assault -- 
complete criminal reduce likelihood injury 
victim . 
interesting , nonetheless , author 
report number four civilian justifiable homicide 
without firearm city less restrictive seattle 
account 100 % report civilian justifiable homicide 
involve firearm . 
9 . 
centers disease control , fund `` study , '' 
editorially praise paper , ref . 
9 say `` apply 
scientific method examine focus contention 
advocate stricter regulation firearm , particularly 
handgun . '' 
nothing paper could possibly 
mistake `` scientific method '' sociologist 
criminologist . 
`` study '' 
test experimental drug control hypertension find 
two middle-class white male , one aged 25 
40 , without first take vital sign , 
administer experimental drug 25-year-old 
give 40-year-old placebo , take blood pressure 
, find younger man lower blood pressure , 
announce `` special article '' new medical breakthrough . 
would nice think `` study '' would neither 
fund cdc print nejm . 
since longstanding anti-gun bias nejm cdc 
make willing present shoddy research `` scientific 
breakthrough '' `` special article '' editorial relate 
firearm , obligate correct record notify 
news media congressional executive oversight 
activity centers disease control 
distortion contain `` handgun regulations , crime , assaults , 
homicide : tale two cities '' `` firearm injuries : call 
science . '' 
clearly , scientific standard go wayside 
whenever cdc new england journal medicine seize 
opportunity attack firearm ownership america . 
reference 
1 . 
wright jd , et al , weapons , crime violence america : literature 
review research agenda , washington , d.c. : department justice , 
1981 . 
2 . 
scarff e. evaluation canadian gun control legislation : final 
report . 
ottawa : ministry solicitor general canada , 1983 , 
p. 87 . 
3 . 
department justice , federal bureau investigation , crime 
united states , 1987 uniform crime report . 
washington , d.c. : 
government printing office , 1988 
4 . 
cook pj . 
role firearm violent crime . 
: wolfgang m. 
weiner na , ed . 
criminal violence , beverly hills , calif. : sage , 1982 : 
, p. . 
5 . 
kleck g. crime control private use armed force . 
social problem 1988 : -21 . 
6 . 
ea , brosnan d. victim response robbery crime 
control policy . 
criminology . 
1985 : . 
7 . 
lizotte aj . 
determinants rape assault . 
journal 
quantitative criminology . 
1986 : . 
8 . 
sayles sl , kleck g. rape resistance . 
paper american society 
criminology convention , chicago , 1988 . 
9 . 
mercy ja , houk vn . 
firearm injury : call science . 
nejm : . 

gun sputter 
james d. wright 
july 1989 issue reason , free minds & free markets 
someone write : `` statistics like bikini . 
real 
suggestive , conceal vital . '' 
problem demonstrate 
recent entry long line scientific research purport 
show causal link gun availability homicide . 
fund 
federal government publish last year new england journal 
medicine , study compare homicide rate seattle vancouver 
suggest handgun ban `` may reduce rate homicide 
community . '' 
nine medical doctor publish `` handgun regulations , crime , 
assault , homicide '' essentially reason three step : 1 despite 
many historical , social , demographic similarity , 2 vancouver 
markedly lower homicide rate 3 stricter gun regulation 
make gun less available . 
second step reasoning seem 
indisputable . 
overall homicide rate seattle period 
11.3 per 100,000 , compare 6.9 vancouver . 
homicide definitely common seattle . 
question become , 
? 
author present believable although entirely accurate case 
support notion , claim third step reasoning , 
vancouver 's handgun regulation much stringent . 

evidence difference gun indirect 
unpersuasive ; indeed , acknowledge direct evidence point 
exist . 
offer two fragment inferential datum support 
claim gun available seattle ; anybody 
know matter empirical fact , opposite could true . 

therefore ask , conclusion study , believe 
difference gun availability explain difference homicide rate 
difference gun availability establish . 
indeed , situation even troublesome . 
first two 
indirect bit evidence difference number conceal - 
weapon permit issue seattle number 
permit issue vancouver . 
difference two city 
permit regulation render two number strictly . 
second bit evidence `` cook 's gun prevalence index , '' stand 
41 percent seattle 12 percent vancouver . 
cook 's index 
however , measure relative prevalence gun ownership 
various city . 
measure gun misuse -- average percentage 
homicide suicide involve firearm . 
present case , index show homicide suicide , 
firearm likely use vancouver . 
take 
cook 's index measure general firearm availability , must 
assume proportional involvement gun homicide suicide 
directly related relative availability general 
population . 
exactly author seek prove . 

assume one seek prove , `` prove '' basis 
assumption ot constitute scientific evidence anything . 
even grant , basis compelling evidence , 
gun less common vancouver , might still question cause . 
author attribute seattle 's higher crime rate higher rate gun 
ownership . 
might well argue low crime homicide rate 
reduce motivation average citizen obtain gun -- word , 
crime rate explain variation gun ownership , vice versa . 
fact , commonly argue great britain 's low rate 
violent crime function nation 's strict gun law 
consequent low rate gun ownership -- british researcher colin 
greenwood find great britain enjoy low rate violent crime 
many decade strict firearm control enact . 
invoke 
ancient methodological saw , correlation cause . 
problem study end lack direct datum 
gun ownership . 
author say seattle vancouver `` similar 
many way , '' imply differ mainly gun availability , 
stringency , crime rate . 
evident attempt establish 
ceteris paribus condition sound scientific analysis -- `` 
else equal '' among thing compare . 
clearly two city similar way , closer look 
reveal difference way relevant respective crime 
homicide rate . 
city closely match percentage 
population white 79 percent 76 percent . 
seattle 
10 percent black , vancouver less 0.5 percent . 
vancouver 's minority population overwhelmingly asian . 
although 
author show th two city approximately comparable half - 
dozen readily available demographic indicator , show 
potentially relevant source variation rule . 
fact , difference racial composition two city 
particularly relevant light study 's breakdown homicide rate 
accord race victim . 
white majority , homicide 
rate nearly identical -- 6.2 per 100,000 seattle , 6.4 vancouver . 
differ overall homicide rate two city therefore due 
entirely vastly different rate among racial minority . 
black , 
observe difference homicide rate 36.6 9.5 hispanics 
26.9 7.9 . 
complexity render asian comparison 
problematic , higher seattle vancouver . 
racial 
minority much likely victim homicide seattle 
vancouver ; white majority equally likely slay 
either city . 
since nearly 2:1 initial difference homicide 
city due exclusively 3:1 4:1 difference minority 
group , fair ask postulate difference `` gun availability '' 
would matter dramatically minority 
matter whites . 
differential gun availability explain 
black hispanics -- whites -- much likely kill 
seattle vancouver ? 
study united states , incidentally , 
show large consistent racial difference gun ownership . 
explanation plausible ? 
could disparity 
canadian american rate poverty among racial minority 
anything ? 
relative rate drug alcohol 
abuse ? 
homelessness among cty 's minority population ? 
city 
seattle run largest shelter homeless man west 
mississippi . 
unemployment among young , , nonwhite man 
united states usually exceed 40 percent . 
comparable canadian 
percentage ? 
crucial point canada united states differ many 
way , city population subgroup two country . 
absent 
detailed analysis , nearly `` many way '' might explain part 
difference homicide rate . 
gross comparison 
seattle vancouver , else equal . 
author study acknowledge racial pattern homicide 
result `` complex picture . '' 
acknowledge ensue 
complexity seriously undercut main thrust argument . 

also acknowledge `` socio-economic status probably important 
confounding factor comparison , '' remark `` black 
vancouver slightly higher mean income 1981 rest 
vancouver 's population . '' 
give evidence present article , 
possible difference homicide rate seattle 
vancouver result greater among seattle 's racial 
minority . 
author pay attention possibility , 
since `` detailed information household income accord race 
available vancouver . '' 
largely insurmountable methodological difficulty confront 
gross comparative study sort illustrate simple 
example . 
one take u.s. compare term 
1 gun ownership 2 crime homicide rate , one 
would find astonishing pattern : county gun less crime . 
would one conclude evidence alone gun actually reduce 
crime ? 
would one insist variable also take 
account ? 
example , `` hidden variable '' city size : gun 
common small town rural area , whereas crime big-city 
problem . 
researcher fail anticipate variable , lack 
appropriate datum examine possible consequence , coud 
seriously mislead . 
study hand , author match two city 
size minority poverty rate hidden variable , 
result impossible interpret . 
editorial `` firearm injuries : call science '' accompany 
study , two official centers disease control laud 
author apply `` scientific method '' problem grave public 
heath significance . 
attempt draw causal conclusion 
research , essence scientific method anticipate 
plausible alternative explanation result try rule 
. 
absent effort , result may well seem scientific 
little polemic masquerade serious research . 

study one number recent effort -- employ practical 
identical research design publish lead scientific journal -- 
cause concern . 
james d. wright professor sociology tulane university . 

research extensively relationship firearm crime . 
reason publish monthly except combined august-september issue reason 
foundation , nonprofit , tax-exempt organization . 
subscription rate : $ 24.00 
per year . 
reason foundation 
ocean park blvd. . 
suite 1062 
santa monica , ca 
