: jack 
subject : defamation league 
organization : contributor , chicago , il 
lines : 235 
distribution : world 
: 
following post doubt retype yigal ahrens consider 
importance issue almost total blackout except 
california , repost appropriate group . 
la times , friday , april 9 , 1993 . 
p. a1 . 
evidence adl spy operation seize police 
richard c. paddock , times staff writer 
san francisco -- police thursday serve search warrant 
anti-defamation league los angeles , seize evidence 
nationwide intelligence network accuse keep file 
950 political group , newspaper labor union many 
12,000 people . 
describe spy operation great detail , san francisco 
authority simultaneously release voluminous document tell 
operative anti-defamation league search trash 
infiltrate organization gather intelligence arab-american , 
right-wing call `` pinko '' organization . 
representative anti-defamation league , well-known 
organization u.s. jewish community dedicate fight 
anti-semitism , decline detailed comment thursday deny breaking 
law . 
police allege organization maintain undercover operative 
gather political intelligence least seven city , include los 
angeles san francisco . 
group focus spy operation span political 
spectrum , include group ku klux klan , white aryan 
resistance , operation rescue , greenpeace , national assn. 
advancement colored people , united farm workers jewish 
defense league . 
also list mills college , board 
director san francisco public television station kqed san 
francisco bay guardian newspaper . 
people subject spy operation include former 
republican rep. pete mccloskey , jail political extremist lyndon h. 
larouche los angeles times foreign correspondent scott kraft , 
base south africa . 
authorities say much material collect group 
confidential information obtain illegally law enforcement 
agency . 
also allege datum individual 
organization sell separately south african government . 
addition allegation obtain confidential information 
police , anti-defamation league could face total 48 felony 
count properly report employment chief west 
coast spy , roy bullock , accord affidavit file justify 
search warrant . 
anti-defamation league disguise payment bullock 
25 year funnel $ 550 week beverly hills attorney bruce i. 
hochman , pay bullock , accord document release 
san francisco . 
hochman , former president jewish federation 
council greater los angeles one state 's lead tax 
attorney , city late next week could 
reach comment , office say . 
1990 , hochman , former u.s. prosecutor , also member 
panel appoint . 
pete wilson secretly make initial 
recommendation new federal judge california . 
hochman 
former regional president anti-defamation league . 
league , initially cooperate police , deny 
repeatedly intelligence-gathering operation break law . 
league official confirm deny whether bullock 
employee say simply trade information police 
department people might involve hate crime . 
affidavit file obtain warrant thursday 's search , 
san francisco police allege `` adl employee apparently less 
truthful '' provide information earlier search 
conduct without warrant . 
david lehrer , executive director los angeles adl office , say 
organization violate law . 
`` nothing 
nefarious operate , '' say . 
`` 
record speak . '' 
police affidavit contend lehrer sole control secret 
fund use pay `` fact-finding operation . '' 
lehrer , accord 
document , sign check account name l. 
patterson . 
adl official say account use pay subscription 
wide variety extremist publication might balk send 
directly anti-defamation league . 
bullock , 58 , collect intelligence adl 
nearly 40 year , defend effort lengthy interview 
san francisco police . 
say gather name many 
source enter computer heading 
`` skin '' `` pinkos , '' necessarily mean 
surveillance . 
`` might never see call 99 % , '' bullock say . 
`` mean anything file . 

threat anyone 's civil rights name appear file , 
say , ` pinko . ' '' 
recent year , bullock work closely san francisco police 
officer tom gerard , flee phillippines last fall 
question fbi case . 
former cia employee , gerard supply bullock criminal record 
department motor vehicles information home address , 
vehicle registration , physical characteristic driver license 
photograph . 
use file gather anti-defamation league , gerard 
bullock also provide information south african government , 
receive $ 16,000 four year , document show . 
file times staff writer kraft , apparently sell 
south african government , provide insight hit-and-miss 
nature spy operation . 
file note kraft 's article `` appear frequently times 
well research write , '' little else file 
accurate . 
brief entry confuse times ' kraft another 
scott kraft provide south african government wrong 
kraft 's physical description , photograph personal 
information . 
nevertheless , document provide illuminating detail 
bullock decade infiltrate manner organization , 
skinhead left-wing radical , search regularly trash 
target group . 
use anti-defamation league fund , also run 
pay informant code name `` scott '' `` scumbag . '' 
work closely police officer coast , 
exchange information fbi work federal agency , 
include bureau alcohol , tobacco firearm . 
bullock 's work pay informant fbi -- spy 
behalf anti-defamation league south african 
government -- prove undoing . 
fbi learn 
agent foreign government begin investigate , lead 
probe anti-defamation league 's intelligence network . 

anti-defamation league employ undercover operative gather 
information los angeles , san francisco , new york , washington , 
chicago , st. louis atlanta , accord affidavit 
investigator . 
join san francisco police search league 
office los angeles bank investigator office 
san francisco dist . 
atty. arlo smith state franchise tax 
board . 
los angeles police department , earlier refuse 
cooperate investigation , inform search los 
angeles invite participate . 
investigator suspect 
confidential information anti-defamation league file may 
come los angeles police officer . 
los angeles times , saturday , april 10 , 1993 . 
p. a23 . 
adl vow cooperate spy investigation 
richard c. paddock , times staff writer . 
san francisco -- anti-defamation league defend record 
civil rights group friday say cooperate authority 
investigate whether organization collect confidential 
police information citizen group . 
san francisco dist . 
atty. arlo smith say anti-defamation 
league employee involve intelligence gathering could face many 
felony count receive confidential file , eavesdropping , tax 
violation conspiracy . 
police accuse anti-defamation league truthful 
spy operation , collect information 
12,000 individual 950 political group across political 
spectrum . 
hundred page document release prosecutor thursday show 
adl maintain nationwide intelligence network keep 
file political figure . 
even , smith suggest anti-defamation league shut 
spy operation , prosecutor would take account 
decide charge file . 
statement release washington , national director abraham h. 
foxman describe adl `` jewish defense agency fight 
protect minority bigotry discrimination 80 
year . '' 
foxman say organization regard credible source 
extremist group tradition routinely provide 
information police , journalist , academic , government official 
public . 
never policy adl obtain 
information illegally , say . 
`` like journalist , order protect confidentiality 
physical safety source , adl comment nature 
identity source information , '' foxman say . 
anti-defamation league refuse acknowledge one 
longtime employee , roy bullock , anything `` private 
individual allege adl ` informant . ' '' 
among document release prosecutor detail statement 
show adl funnel weekly payment bullock 
beverly hills attorney bruce i. hochman . 
`` roy would penetrate organization need arrangement 
distance adl , '' hochman tell san francisco police investigator . 
hochman could reach friday home office comment . 
despite anti-defamation league 's assertion cooperate 
authority , san francisco police say group turn 
pertinent document voluntary search group 's 
office los angeles san francisco last fall . 
second round search thursday , time search warrant , 
produce vast quantity record , primarily deal financial 
transaction , smith say . 
search may necessary 
least month charge file , say . 
`` investigation , course , go wherever fact lead , '' 
district attorney say . 
-- 
yigal arens 
tv make ! 

j 
