: jon leech 
subject : space faq - controversial question 
keyword : frequently ask question 
: _ 
expire : 6 may 1993 gmt 
distribution : world 
organization : university north carolina , chapel hill 
lines : 252 
supersedes : < > 
: 
: 
: $ date : $ 
controversial question 
issue periodically come much argument fact 
offer . 
summary attempt represent position 
much net community settle . 
please bring 
unless something truly new discuss . 
net set 
public policy , representative . 
happen saturn v plan 
despite widespread belief contrary , saturn v blueprint 
lose . 
keep marshall space flight center 
microfilm . 
problem re-creating saturn v find drawing , 
find vendor supply mid-1960 's vintage hardware like 
guidance system component , fact launch pad vab 
convert space shuttle use , place launch 
. 
time redesign accommodate available hardware 
launch pad , may well start scratch clean 
sheet design . 
data space missions immediately available 
investigator associate nasa mission allow exclusive access 
one year datum obtain order give 
opportunity analyze datum publish result without 
`` scoop '' people uninvolved mission . 
however , nasa frequently 
release example non-digital form , e.g. photo public early 
mission . 
risk nuclear rtg power source space probe 
extensive discussion topic spark attempt 
block galileo ulysses launch grounds plutonium 
thermal source dangerous . 
numerous study claim even 
worst-case scenario shuttle explosion launch , accidental 
reentry interplanetary velocity , risk extremely small . 
two interesting datum point 1 may 1968 loss two snap 
rtg , land intact pacific ocean nimbus b weather 
satellite fail reach orbit . 
fuel recover 5 month 
release plutonium . 
2 april 1970 , apollo 13 lunar 
module reenter atmosphere snap 27 rtg heat source , 
jettison , fall intact 20,000 foot deep tonga trench 
pacific ocean . 
corrosion resistant material rtg 
expect prevent release fuel period time equal 10 
half-life fuel 870 year doe 1980 . 
make inform judgement , reference may wish 
pursue : 
good review technical fact issue give daniel 
salisbury `` radiation risk planetary exploration -- rtg 
controversy , '' planetary report , may-june 1987 , page 3-7 . 
another good 
article , also review event precede galileo 's launch , 
`` showdown pad , '' robert g. nichols , appear november 
1989 issue ad astra . 
magazine publish 
organization , planetary society national space society 
respectively . 
gordon l chipman , jr. , `` advanced space nuclear systems '' aas , 
develop space frontier , edit albert naumann grover 
alexander , , 1983 , p. . 
`` hazard plutonium toxicity '' , bernard l. cohen , health physics , 
vol 32 may 1977 , page . 
nus corporation , safety status report ulysses mission : risk 
analysis book 1 . 
document number nus ; gpo # ; 
publish jan 31 , 1990 . 
nasa office space science application , final environmental 
impact statement ulysses mission tier 2 , serial number 
gpo number , probably available nti nasa june 1990 . 
doe 1980 u.s. department energy , transuranic element 
environment , wayne c. hanson , editor ; doe document . 
; 
government printing office , washington , d.c. , april 1980 . 
impact space shuttle ozone layer 
time time , claim make chemical release 
space shuttle 's solid rocket booster srb responsible 
significant amount damage ozone layer . 
study 
indicate reality minute impact , 
absolute term relative chemical source . 

remainder item response author quote 
study , charles jackman . 
atmospheric modelling study space shuttle effect 
stratosphere involve three independent theoretical group , 
organize dr. michael prather , institute space 
study . 
three group involve michael prather maria garcia 
, charlie jackman anne douglass space 
flight center , malcolm ko dak sze atmospheric 
environmental research , inc. . 
effort look effect 
space shuttle titan rocket stratosphere . 
follow estimated source stratospheric chlorine : 
industrial source : 300,000,000 
natural source : 
shuttle source : 725,000 
shuttle source assume 9 space shuttle 6 titan rocket 
launch yearly . 
thus launch would add less 0.25 % 
total stratospheric chlorine source . 
effect ozone minimal : global yearly average total ozone would 
decrease % . 
much less total ozone variability 
associate volcanic activity solar flare . 
influence human-made chlorine product ozone compute 
atmospheric model calculation 1 % decrease globally 
average ozone 1980 1990 . 
influence space shuttle 
titan rocket stratosphere negligible . 
launch 
schedule space shuttle titan rocket would need 
increase factor hundred order 
effect ozone increase industrial 
present time . 
theoretical result study publish _ space 
shuttle 's impact stratosphere _ , mj prather , mm garcia , ar 
douglass , ch jackman , ko n.d. sze , journal geophysical 
research , 95 , , 1990 . 
charles jackman , atmospheric chemistry dynamics branch , 
code 916 , space flight center , 
greenbelt , md 
also see _ chemical rockets environment _ , mcdonald , r bennett , 
j hinshaw , m barnes , aerospace america , may 1991 . 
long human live unprotected space 
try hold breath , exposure space half 
minute unlikely produce permanent injury . 
hold 
breath likely damage lung , something scuba diver 
watch ascend , 'll eardrum trouble 
eustachian tube badly plug , theory predict -- animal 
experiment confirm -- otherwise , exposure vacuum cause 
immediate injury . 
explode . 
blood boil . 

freeze . 
instantly lose consciousness . 
various minor problem sunburn , possibly `` bend '' , certainly 
mild , reversible , painless swell skin underlie tissue 
start ten seconds . 
point lose consciousness 
lack oxygen . 
injury accumulate . 
perhaps one two minute , 
die . 
limit really know . 
reference : 
_ effect chimpanzee rapid decompression near vacuum _ , 
alfred g. koestler ed. , nasa nov 1965 . 
_ experimental animal decompression near vacuum environment _ , r.w. 
bancroft , j.e. dunn , ed , report june 1965 , usaf school 
aerospace medicine , brooks afb , texas . 
challenger astronauts die 
challenger shuttle launch destroy explosion . 

well-documented fact ; see rogers commission report , example . 
look like explosion fuel burning external tank 
come apart . 
force crew cabin sufficient kill 
astronaut , never mind destroy body , accord kerwin 
team 's report . 
astronaut kill more-or-less intact cabin hit 
water circa , body spend several week 
underwater . 
remains recover , kerwin team 
examine , send bury . 
using shuttle beyond low earth orbit 
use shuttle orbiter mission beyond low earth orbit 
get . 
big heavy carry 
enough fuel , even fill part cargo bay tank . 
furthermore , particularly sensible , much 
weight thing like wing , totally useless except 
immediate vicinity earth . 
shuttle orbiter highly 
specialize travel earth 's surface low orbit . 
take 
higher enormously costly wasteful . 
much better approach would 
use shuttle subsystem build specialize 
spacecraft . 
yet another concise answer henry spencer . 
`` face mars '' 
really big rock mars look remarkably like humanoid 
face . 
appear two different frame viking orbiter imagery : 
much appearance , one often 
publish , sun 10 degree western horizon 
sun 27 degree west . 
science writer richard hoagland champion idea face 
artificial , intend resemble human , erect 
extraterrestrial civilization . 
analyst concede 
resemblance likely accidental . 
viking image show 
crater lava flow resemble kermit frog elsewhere 
mars . 
exist mars anomalies research society sorry , 
know address study face . 
mars observer mission carry extremely high-resolution 
camera , better image formation hopefully settle 
question year . 
meantime , speculation face 
best carry group , 
. 
v. g. molenaar , unusual martian surface feature , mars 
research , p.o. box 284 , glen dale , maryland , usa , 1982 . 
$ 18 mail . 
r.r. pozos , face mars , chicago review press , 1986 . 
account 
interdisciplinary speculative conference hoagland organize 
investigate face 
r.c. hoagland , monument mars : city edge forever , 
north atlantic books , berkeley , california , usa , 1987 . 
elaborate 
discussion evidence speculation formation near face 
form city 
m.j. carlotto , `` digital imagery analysis unusual martian surface 
feature , '' applied optics , 27 , p. , 1987 . 
extract 
three-dimensional model face 2-d image 
m.j. carlotto & m.c. stein , `` method searching artificial 
object planetary surfaces , '' journal british interplanetary 
society , vol . 
43 no. 5 may 1990 , . 
use fractal image 
analysis model guess whether face artificial 
b. o'leary , `` analysis image ` face ' mars possible 
intelligent origin , '' , vol . 
43 no. 5 may 1990 , p. . 
light carlotto 's model two angle show consistent ; 
show face look observe surface 
next : faq # - space group & space publication 
