: boundary 
subject : re : atheist 's view christianity : re : `` accept heart ... '' 
organization : georgia institute technology 
lines : 52 
article < > jason smith write : 
> article < > petri write : 
> true . 
science collection model tell `` '' , 
> , something happen . 
see good reason `` '' 
> question would bind natural thing , assume 
> supernatural domain exist . 
supernatural exist , 
> appropriate ask ask exist . 
beg disagree assertion science collection model . 
scientific model game play , good 
assumption measurement go . 
example , remember nuclear winter big hype 
atmospheric science . 
long sagan 's admonition 
one boy add another level reality model 
nuclear winter scenario erl boulder . 
decide assume 
atmosphere like two-dimensional thing , one - 
dimensional thing . 
also assume rain wind 
blow real atmosphere . 
return georgia tech , show 
transparency atmospheric cooling rate accord year 
generate model . 
unmistakable correlation 
age meaning simplicity assumption ; i.e. , remoteness 
reality model degree cooling . 
whereas sagan 's 
model show approximate 40-degree cooling episode , next model 
sophistication show half , get 
boy 's model , show 1-2 degree drop war happen 
winter less 10 degree drop happen summer . 
predict would include presence ocean , chemistry , 
biosphere , indicator reality model , would 
probably see even less cooling . 
thus nuclear winter reduce even 
less nuclear autumn , one might say , nuclear fizzle . 
quote h.s. yoder , 
postulate model become accept reality 
instead lattice assumption . 
authoritarianism dominate field , critical 
analysis argument encourage ... skepticism 
model approach earth problem warrant 
many key parameter include . 
statement surely apply equally well cosmogony . 

convince observational evidence substantiate model result 
may one suggest model may describe reality . 
think 
would clear thing really get hand . 
-- 
boundary 
que pensar que yo haya traer la paz la tierra ; 
traer la paz , sino la guerra mateo 10:34 , vulgata latina 
