: david 
subject : medical news part 
: david 
distribution : world 
organization : stat gateway service , 
lines : 707 
------------- cut ----------------- 
medical newsletter page 13 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
food & drug administration news 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
fda approve depo provera , injectable contraceptive 
food drug administration 
immediate release susan cruzan - 
food drug administration today announce approval depo provera , 
injectable contraceptive drug . 
drug , contain synthetic hormone similar natural hormone 
progesterone , protect woman pregnancy three month per injection . 
hormone inject muscle arm buttock 
release bloodstream prevent pregnancy . 
99 percent 
effective . 
`` drug present another long-term , effective option woman prevent 
pregnancy , '' say fda commissioner david a. kessler , m.d. `` injectable , 
give every three month , depo provera eliminate problem relate 
miss daily dose . '' 
depo provera available 150 mg . 
single dose vial doctor 
clinic must give regular basis maintain contraceptive 
protection . 
patient decide become pregnant , discontinue 
injection . 
product , fda advise patient discuss benefit 
risk depo provera doctor health care professional 
make decision use . 
depo provera 's effectiveness contraceptive establish extensive 
study manufacturer , world health organization health agency 
country . 
u.s. clinical trial , begin 1963 , also find depo 
provera effective injectable contraceptive . 
common side effect menstrual irregularity weight gain . 

addition , patient may experience headache , nervousness , abdominal pain , 
dizziness , weakness fatigue . 
drug use woman 
acute liver disease , unexplained vaginal bleeding , breast cancer blood 
clot leg , lung eye . 
labeling advise doctor rule pregnancy prescribe 
drug , due concern low birth weight baby expose drug . 
medical newsletter page 14 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
recent datum also demonstrate long-term use may contribute 
osteoporosis . 
manufacturer conduct additional research study 
potential effect . 
depo provera develop 1960 approve 
contraception many country . 
upjohn company kalamazoo , mich. , 
market drug name , depo provera contraceptive 
injection , first submit approval united states 1970 . 
time , animal study raise question potential cause 
breast cancer . 
worldwide study since find overall risk cancer , 
include breast cancer human , minimal . 
medical newsletter page 15 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
new rules speed approval drug life-threatening illness 
food drug administration 
monica revelle - 
food drug administration today announce soon publish new 
rule shed approval drug patient serious life - 
threaten illness , aids , cancer alzheimer 's disease . 
`` final rule help patient suffer serious 
illness get access new drug month even year earlier would 
otherwise possible , '' say hhs secretary louis w. sullivan , m.d. `` effort 
accelerate fda review drug long-term commitment 
indeed hallmark administration . '' 
rule establish procedure food drug administration 
approve drug base `` surrogate endpoint '' marker . 
apply 
drug provide meaningful benefit currently available therapy . 

endpoint would include laboratory test physical sign 
constitute clinical effect judge qualify 
scientist likely correspond real benefit patient . 
use surrogate endpoint measurement drug efficacy permit approval 
earlier traditional endpoint -- relief disease symptom 
prevention disability death disease -- use . 
new rule provide therapy approve soon safety 
effectiveness , base surrogate endpoint , reasonably establish . 
drug 's sponsor require agree continue conduct 
human study confirm drug 's effect surrogate 
endpoint indicator clinical effectiveness . 
one new drug -- also call ddc -- approve june 19 , use 
model process , treat human immunodeficiency virus , hiv , 
cause aid . 
accelerate approval also use , necessary , fda determine 
drug , judge effective treatment disease , use 
safely restricted distribution plan . 
`` new rule help streamline drug development review process 
without sacrifice goad science rigorous fda oversight , '' say fda 
commissioner david a. kessler , m.d. `` drug approval accomplish 
faster , drug biological product must still meet safety 
effectiveness standard require law . '' 
medical newsletter page 16 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
new procedure also allow streamlined withdrawal process 
study verify drug 's clinical benefit , 
new evidence drug product show safe effective , 
specify circumstance arise necessitate expeditious withdrawal 
drug biologic . 
medical newsletter page 17 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
articles 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
research show promise prevent slow 
blindness due retinal disease 
national retinitis pigmentosa foundation 
neutrophilic factor rescue photoreceptor cell animal test 
baltimore , md - researcher university california san francisco 
regeneron pharmaceuticals , inc. nasdaq : discover 
certain naturally occur substance know neurotrophic factor 
prevent degeneration cell retina eye . 

degeneration cell , know photoreceptor , major cause 
visual impairment 
research , publish december issue proceedings 
national academy science pnas , hold promise people may lose 
sight due progressive retinal degeneration -- currently , drug 
treatment retinal degeneration exist . 
estimate 2.5 million 
americans severe vision loss due age-related macular degeneration 
100,000 americans affect retinitis , hereditary disease 
cause blindness . 
addition , year 15,000 people undergo 
surgical procedure repair retinal detachment retinal trauma . 
research fund part rp retinitis pigmentosa 
foundation fighting blindness , regeneron pharmaceuticals national eye 
institute . 
conduct drs. matthew m. , kazuhiko , douglas 
, michael t. matthes roy h. steinberg ucsf , dr. c ; 
, regeneron 's vice president discovery . 
regeneron hold 
exclusive license research ucsf . 
research describe pnas , model use 
assess activity number naturally occur 
substance . 
experimental rat expose constant light one week . 
eye treat effective factor lose 
photoreceptor cell -- rod cone retina -- light 
exposure . 
brain derive neurotrophic factor bdnf ciliary neurotrophic 
factor particularly effective model without cause 
unwanted side effect ; factor nerve growth factor ngf 
insulin-like growth factor igf-1 effective experiment . 
discuss research , dr. jesse m. cedarbaum , regeneron 's director 
clinical research , say , `` bdnf 's ability rescue neuron retina 
damage light exposure may hold promise treatment age - 
related macular degeneration , one lead cause vision impairment , 
retinal detachment . 
follow detachment , permanent vision loss may 
medical newsletter page 18 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
result death detach retinal cell . 
possible bdnf 
could play role rescue cell retina reattach 
surgically . '' 
`` retinitis pigmentosa slowly progress disease cause 
retina degenerate period year even decade . 
vision decrease 
small tunnel sight result total blindness . 
hope 
research growth factor provide means slow progression 
preserve useful vision throughout life , '' state jeanette s. felix , ph.d. , 
director science rp foundation fighting blindness . 
addition work describe , regeneron develop bdnf 
conjunction inc. nasdaq : possible treatment 
peripheral neuropathy associate diabetes cancer chemotherapy , 
motor neuron disease , parkinson 's disease , alzheimer 's disease . 

, regeneron test patient lateral 
sclerosis commonly know lou gehrig 's disease . 
regeneron , inc. , base tarrytown , new york , 
leader discovery development compound 
treatment neurodegenerative disease , peripheral neuropathy nerve 
injury , affect seven million americans . 
drs. 
steinberg ucsf consultant regeneron . 
medical newsletter page 19 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
affluent diet increase risk heart disease 
research resources reporter 
write mary weideman 
1992 
national institutes health 
high-fat , diet rapidly increase risk factor coronary 
heart disease native population develop country 
traditionally consume diet low fat . 
finding , accord 
investigator oregon health sciences university portland , 
serious implication public health industrialize develop 
country . 
`` study demonstrate develop coronary heart disease 
higher blood cholesterol triglyceride level . 
show also 
importance diet particularly potential diet increase body 
weight , thereby lead whole host health problem develop 
country affluent nation well , '' explain principal investigator dr. 
william e. connor , head section clinical nutrition lipid 
metabolism oregon health sciences university . 
past 25 year dr. connor team characterize 
food nutrient intake tara indians mexico , 
simultaneously document various aspect tarahumara lipid metabolism . 
native mexicans number approximately 50,000 reside sierra 
madre occidental mountains state chihuahua . 
tarahumaras 
couple agrarian diet endurance racing . 
probably result , coronary 
heart disease , prevalent western industrialize nation , 
virtually non existent culture . 
loosely translate , name 
tarahumara mean `` fleet foot , '' reflect tribal passion bet 
`` kickball '' race , participant run distance 100 mile 
kick wooden ball . 
typical tarahumara diet consist primarily pinto bean , tortilla , 
pinole , drink make ground roasted corn mix cold water , 
together squash gath ere fruit vegetable . 
tara 
also eat small amount game , fish , egg . 
food contain 
approximately 12 percent total calorie fat majority 69 
percent vegetable origin . 
dietician martha mcmurry , 
study , describe diet simple rich nutrient 
low cholesterol fat . 
tarahumaras average plasma cholesterol level 121 mg dl , 
low-density lipoprotein ldl - cholesterol level 72 , high-density 
lipoprotein hdl - cholesterol level 32 42 . 
value 
good , low-risk range , accord researcher . 
elevated 
cholesterol level consider risk factor heart 
medical newsletter page 20 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
disease . 
consider beneficial . 
previous study 
tarahumaras find low risk cardiac disease , although 
able respond diet elevation total ldl - 
cholesterol . 
clinical research center dietitian mcmurry maria 
teresa cerqueira establish metabolic unit jesuit mission school 
building near community hospital small village . 
food 
weigh , cook , feed study participant 
investigator ' direct supervision , ensure subject eat food 
stipulate research protocol . 
fast blood draw twice weekly , 
plasma sample freeze ship dr. connors laboratory 
cholesterol , triglyceride , lipoprotein analysis . 
regular measurement 
include participant body weight , height , triceps skin fold thickness . 
thirteen tarahumaras , five woman eight man , include one adolescent , 
feed native diet 1 week , follow 5 week `` affluent '' diet . 
`` study go concentration dietary fat 40 
percent total calorie . 
prototype holiday diet 
many americans consume diet high fat , sugar , cholesterol , low 
fiber , '' elaborate dr. conners . 
dietary characteristic reflect 
index , csi , recently devise research dietitian 
sonja conner work dr. connor . 
`` csi single number 
incorporate amount cholesterol amount saturated fat 
diet . 
csi indicate diet 's potential elevate cholesterol 
level , particularly ldl , '' dr. connor explain . 
diet 
average low csi 20 ; dr. connor 's `` affluent '' diet use study 
rank csi 149 . 
experimental design study reflect importance 
establish baseline plasma lipid level , typical native diet , 
expose subject experimental diet . 
standard curve relate 
dietary food intake plasma cholesterol demonstrate level , 
plateau , consumption large amount fat . 
change dietary fat 
cholesterol range little effect plasma level . 
`` 
must baseline diet almost free variable go put 
experimental diet . 
framingham study , example , 
discriminate basis diet individual get heart disease 
diet already high fat . 
subject already eat 
plateau , '' dr. connor say . 
5 week consume `` affluent '' diet , subject ' mean plasma 
cholesterol level crease 31 percent , primarily ldl 
fraction , rise 39 percent . 
increase 31 per cent , 
ldl hdl ratio change therefore little . 
plasma triglyceride 
level increase 18 percent , subject average 8-pound gain 
weight . 
accord dr. connor , lipid change occur surprisingly soon , 
yield nearly result 7 day affluent diet 35 
day . 
medical newsletter page 21 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
increase hdl carry broad dietary implication industrialize 
nation . 
`` think increase increase amount 
dietary fat fat content use previous tarahumara metabolic 
study . 
study see change hdl level raise dietary 
cholesterol keep fat relatively consistent native consumption . 
present study increase fat intake 40 percent total 
calorie . 
reach conclusion tarahumara study hdl reflect 
amount dietary fat general amount dietary 
cholesterol . 
hdl must increase help metabolize fat , increase 
quite bit study , '' dr. connor explain . 
low hdl typically important predictor 
coronary heart disease normally consume large amount 
fat cholesterol . 
hdl remain important predictor americans 
usual high fat intake . 
dr. connor recommend diet american contain less 20 
percent total calorie fat , less 100 mg cholesterol , csi 
around 20 , vary accordance caloric need . 
diet low 
meat dairy fat , high fiber . 
dr. connor also comment recent 
suggestion americans adopt `` '' diet . 
`` original 
mediterranean diet , pristine state , consist low intake 
fat animal dairy product . 
already eat lot 
meat dairy product . 
simply continue pattern switch 
olive oil go help situation . '' 
world health organization focus much attention 
emergence disease coronary heart disease nation society 
undergo technological development . 
dr. connor say coronary heart 
disease start give society 's elite , typically eat different 
diet average citizen . 
`` pattern increase , 
entire population higher incidence coronary heart disease , 
place health care burden society . 
would like 
develop country prevent coronary heart disease , 
concentrate aspect economic development public 
health measure improve general well-being , rather pay 
unnecessary , expensive medical technology , '' dr. connors say . 
`` overall implication study human readily move 
plasma lipid lipoprotein value high-risk range within 
short time affluent , excessive diet . 
present rate coronary 
heart disease united states 30 percent less 20 year 
ago , lot accomplish . 
change rapidly , '' conclude . 
medical newsletter page 22 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
general 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
publications health professionals available nci 
unless otherwise note , follow material provide free charge 
call nci 's publication ordering service , . 

federal government publication subject copyright restriction , 
free photocopy nci material . 
general information 
anticancer drug information sheets . 
two - 
side fact sheet english spanish provide 
information side effect common drug use treat 
cancer , proper usage , precaution patient . 
fact sheet prepare united states 
convention , inc. , distribution 
national cancer institute . 
single set may order . 
cancer rates risk , 3rd edition . 
book 
compact guide statistics , risk factor , risk 
major cancer site . 
include chart graph show 
incidence , mortality , survival worldwide 
united states . 
also contain section cost 
cancer . 
136 page . 
diet , nutrition & cancer prevention : guide food choice 
. 
booklet describe know 
diet , nutrition , cancer prevention . 
provide 
information food contain component like fiber , 
fat , vitamin may affect person 's risk get 
certain cancer . 
suggest way use information 
select broad variety food -- choose 
food less . 
include recipe sample 
menu . 
39 page . 
national cancer institute fact book . 
book present 
general information national cancer institute 
include budget datum , grant contract , historical 
information . 
medical newsletter page 23 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
national cancer institute grants process revise 
. 
booklet describe general grant award 
procedure ; include chapter eligibility , preparation 
grant application , peer review , eligible cost , post - 
award activity . 
62 page . 
physician physician : perspective clinical trial . 

15-minute videocassette discuss enter 
patient clinical trial . 
produce 
collaboration american college surgeons 
commission cancer . 
student cancer : resource educator . 
revise booklet design teacher 
student cancer classroom school . 

include explanation cancer , treatment 
effect , guideline young person 's re-entry 
school deal terminally ill student . 
bibliography include educator young 
people . 
22 page . 
understanding immune system . 
booklet 
describe complex network specialize cell 
organ make human immune system . 
explain 
system work fight disease cause invade 
agent bacterium virus , sometimes 
malfunction , result variety disease 
allergy , arthritis , cancer . 
develop 
national institute allergy infectious disease 
print national cancer institute . 
booklet 
present college level instruction immunology . 

appropriate nursing pharmacology student 
person receive college training area within 
health profession . 
36 page . 
material help stop tobacco use 
chew snuff educator package . 
package 
contain : 
ten copy chew snuff real bad stuff , 
brochure design seventh eighth grader 
describe health social effect use 
medical newsletter page 24 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
smokeless tobacco product . 
fully open , 
brochure use poster . 
one copy chew snuff real bad stuff : guide 
make young people aware danger using 
smokeless tobacco . 
booklet lesson plan 
teacher . 
contain fact smokeless tobacco , 
suggest classroom activity , select 
educational resource . 
help patient stop smoking : national cancer 
institute manual physician . 
step - 
handbook institute smoking cessation 
technique medical practice . 
manual , resource 
list material , base result 
clinical trial . 
75 page . 
help patient stop using tobacco : national 
cancer institute manual oral health team . 
handbook dentist , dental hygienist , 
dental assistant . 
complement physician ' manual 
include additional information smoking prevention 
smokeless tobacco use . 
58 page . 
pharmacist help smoker quit kit . 
packet material 
help pharmacist encourage smoking patient 
quit . 
contain pharmacist 's guide self-help material 
25 patient . 
school program prevent smoking : national cancer 
institute guide strategy succeed . 

guide outline eight essential element successful 
school-based smoking prevention program base 
research . 
include list available curriculum 
resource select reference . 
24 page . 
self-guided strategy smoking cessation : program 
planner 's guide . 
booklet outline key 
characteristic successful self-help material 
program base collaborative research . 
list 
additional resource reference . 
36 page . 
smoking policy : question answer . 
ten fact sheet 
medical newsletter page 25 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
provide basic information establishment 
worksite smoking policy . 
topic range health 
effect environmental tobacco smoke legal issue 
concern policy implementation . 
strategy control tobacco use united state : 
blueprint public health action 1990s : 
smoking control monograph no. 1 . 
volume provide 
summary learn 40 year public 
health effort smoking , early - 
error health information campaign 1960s nci 's 
science-based project , american stop smoking intervention 
study cancer prevention , begin 1991 . 
offer 
reason comprehensive smoking control strategy 
need address smoker 's total environment 
reduce smoking prevalence significantly next 
decade . 
material outreach program 
cancer prevention early detection : community outreach 
program health professional 
three kit available community program planner 
health professional set local cancer 
prevention early detection education project : 
right thing ... get new attitude 
cancer community outreach program . 
community 
outreach kit target black american audience . 

contain material help health professional 
conduct community education program black 
audience . 
kit emphasize early detection 
breast cancer mammography cervical cancer 
pap test . 
also discuss smoking 
nutrition . 
kit include helpful program guidance , 
fact , news article , visual , brochure . 
hoy community outreach program . 
community 
outreach kit target hispanic audience . 
contain 
bilingual spanish language material help 
health professional conduct community education 
program . 
material educate hispanic audience 
early detection breast cancer mammography 
medical newsletter page 26 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
cervical cancer pap test . 
kit also 
discuss smoking related issue . 
kit 
include helpful guidance , fact , news article , 
visual brochure . 
year . 
. 
lifetime community outreach 
mammography program . 
community outreach kit 
target woman age 40 . 
supply 
community program planner health professional 
plan guidance , fact mammography , news 
article , visual brochure . 
make health communication program work : planner 's guide 
. 
handbook present key principle step 
develop evaluate health communication program 
public , patient , health professional . 

expand upon replace `` pretest health 
communications '' `` make psa work . '' 
131 page . 
support material community outreach program 
video slide presentation list support 
mammography outreach program . 
year ... lifetime videotape . 
5-minute 
vhs videotape use dramatic format highlight 
important fact early detection breast 
cancer mammography . 
una vez al ano ... para toda una vida videotape . 
27 - 
minute spanish videotape inform spanish-speaking woman 
need medical screening , particularly 
mammography . 
explain commonly misunderstand fact 
breast cancer early detection . 
program , 
dramatic format , feature edward james olmos 
cristina saralegui . 
year ... lifetime speaker 's kit slide show . 
kit include 66 full-color slide number - 
code , script suitable mammography 
presentation large group . 
address 
misconception prevalent mammography urge 
woman age 40 older get regular mammogram 
breast cancer detect early possible . 
kit 
medical newsletter page 27 
volume 6 , number 11 april 25 , 1993 
include guide , poster , media announcement , news 
feature , flyer , pamphlet mammography . 
kit 
available directly write : modern , 5000 park 
street north , st. petersburg , fl . 
--------- end part 2 ------------ 
-- 
internet : fax : +1 
bitnet : fidonet > 15 
amateur packet : 
