: 
subject : `` call papers '' vol . 
17 no. 2 
originator : 
organization : jozef stefan institute , ljubljana , slovenia 
lines : 69 
invitation send article informatica magazine . 
first fully international issue publish echo 
quite favourable . 
information , contact . 
dear colleague , april 25 , 1993 
number 1 volume 17 informatica print 
receive week . 
see , journal structure 
following way : editorial first page ; profile second page 
-- biography editor , issue , terry winograd ; edit 
part papers p. 3-80 ; mission research report plan 
knowledge archive project japan stanford , pp. ; 
news announcement p. . 
structure mention 
give suggestion could help make contents 
journal significant , diverse , interesting , bring view 
discourse . 
great emphasis give so-called editorial page . 
page 
express opinion belief write editor problem 
within scope computing informatics , extend 
concern discipline , e.g. cybernetics , advance ai , cognitive science , 
mind , concerned neural science , advance technology 
e.g. photonic , etc. . 
ask professor terry winograd write 
page number 2 . 
certainly would appreciate much get 
suggestion possible offer editor , like express 
strong direct belief concern future development 
area question . 
second page number editor 's profile publish . 
aim profile twofold : show professional 
achievement , interest , scientific , philosophical orientation 
one side ; narrate life story environment 
editor live live side . 
kind story 
instructive , adequately face , contribute 
understanding circumstance editor act live . 
edit part edit papers still critical . 
would like 
stock accept papers advance , issue date particular 
number fix e.g. january , april , july , october . 
situation 
right , ask help contribution 
colleague , collaborator , student , etc. . 
critical view 
contemporary development computing informatics appreciate . 
special emphasis give also originality fresh 
idea come circulation different professional community . 
report different occasion symposium , conference , meeting , etc. . 
particularly new book , papers , interesting event welcome . 
send news immediately also secretary e-mail . 
hand , send book publication annual 
report , journal , call papers , etc. review publish 
informatica . 
editorial staff manage rest . 
e-mail function satisfactorily , please use every respect . 
submit editorial note , profile , report , news even complete 
papers write standard latex format especially formula . 
receive 
several final correct text number 1 different site us , 
russia , etc. . 
way , compose report already type 
text , use choice editing , submit contact 
person , always disposal . 
, 
receive prompt confirmation information concern 
common interest job . 
end , please forget : need cooperation help 
every mention respect . 
aim informatica open various 
possibility communication concern strong scientific 
philosophical orientation well come , still unrevealed , 
way become significant . 
please , apprehend give 
proposal , suggestion , , certainly , contribution via e-mail 
means . 
sincerely , 
anton p. `` 
editor-in-chief 
