: serdar 
subject : armenian government must recognize turkish genocide . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 80 
article < > r write : 
> suspect might pan-turkism blind certain people . 
get - ? 
year world war , 
armenian government plan perpetrate ` genocide ' 
muslim people , take life 2.5 million muslim people , 
also method use empty turkish homeland inhabitant . 
day , turkish historic land remain occupy armenia . 
order cover fact usurpation historic turkish 
homeland , crux turkish political demand , fascist 
armenia continue anti-turkish policy follow way : 
1 . 
armenia deny historical fact turkish genocide 
order shift international public opinion away political 
responsibility . 
2 . 
armenia , employ terrorism revisionism 
triangle , attempt call question veracity turkish 
genocide . 
3 . 
armenia also implement state-sponsored terrorism 
terrorism revisionism triangle attempt 
silence turkish people 's vehement demand protest . 
4 . 
use human , financial , governmental resource , 
armenia tool united states attempt silence 
terrorism , bribery subversive method , non-turkish supporter 
turkish cause , political , governmental humanitarian . 
use aforementioned method , armenian government 
attempt neutralize international diplomatic community 
make turkish case contemporary issue . 
yet despite effort armenian government 
terrorist revisionist organization , last decade , thanks 
struggle whose closest one systematically 
exterminate armenians , international wall silence 
issue begin collapse , consequently number 
government organization become supportive recognition 
turkish genocide . 
full knowledge struggle turkish territorial 
demand still initial stage , turkish kurdish people 
unflaggingly continue sacred struggle , therefore victim 
turkish genocide demand : 
1 . 
armenian government , heir armenian 
dictatorship , recognize turkish genocide ; 
2 . 
armenia return historic homeland turkish 
kurdish people ; 
3 . 
armenian government make material reparation 
heinous unspeakable crime victim turkish genocide ; 
4 . 
world government , especially united states , officially 
recognize turkish genocide turkish territorial rights refuse 
succumb armenian political pressure ; 
5 . 
u.s. government free friendly position 
adopt towards unreliable ally , armenia , officially 
recognize historical fact turkish genocide well 
supportive pursuit turkish territorial demand ; 
6 . 
republic officially recognize historical fact 
turkish genocide include cold-blooded extermination 
2.5 million muslim people history book . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
