: n rajesh 
subject : look job software engineer 
keyword : c & c + + , gui , , operating systems , computer networking . 
: n rajesh 
organization : iowa state university 
lines : 194 
sure suppose post mail . 
however 
last year , involve develop graphical user 
interface guus application , enjoy personally part 
news group get interesting information help 
work . 
post resume hope people work area would 
make time look . 

_ 
westgate hall , 
isu , ames , ia . 

april 29 , 1992 . 
dear prospective employer : 
seek employment software engineer interest software 
design development , utilize experience hardware , 
c & c + + programming , graphical user interface guus , operate system 
computer networking . 
receive bachelor engineering degree electronics 
engineering 1990 m.s. degree electrical engineering dec 1992 
iowa state university . 
currently enrol m.s. computer 
engineering iowa state university . 
master program , research assistant since jan 1991 , 
publish three papers include one ieee transaction magnetic . 
papers reflection quality research ability 
learn new concept quickly . 
involve many project involve software development 
extensive experience programming c , c + + , fortran assembly level . 
also familiar operate system like unix , ultrix ms-dos . 
familiar programming currently , research assistant , 
involve graphical user interface guus design use multiplatform 
gui toolkit + + . 
experience also include area operate system 
computer network , course work project . 
involve 
study design development internal operating 
system . 
also involve many programming project 
computer networking . 
college learn importance clear concise communication . 
also learn lot time management . 
m.s. program 
maintain 3.70 grade average , work 20 hour per week 
enjoy involve many extra curricular activity . 
software experience along hardware background electronics 
engineering would helpful career goal software engineer . 
request qualification may kindly review . 
would like 
interview discuss employment need career goal . 
eager hear soon . 
sincerely 
s.n. rajesh 
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
resume 
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
s. n. rajesh 

work residence 
305 coover isu , westgate hall , isu 
ames , ia ames , ia 

e-mail : 
objective obtain challenging position software engineer 
involve software design development , 
utilize experience hardware , c & c + + programming , 
graphical user interface guus , operate system 
computer networking . 
education currently enrol m.s. computer engineering , iowa state 
university , ames , iowa . 
m.s. electrical engineering , iowa state university , ames , 
iowa dec 1992 gpa major : 3.8 4.0 
overall : 3.7 4.0 . 
thesis : probability detection pod model eddy current 
nondestructive evaluation nde method . 
project fund federal aviation administration faa 
b.e. electronics engineering , bangalore university , 
bangalore , india jan 1990 . 
publication s. n. rajesh , l. s. s. , `` numerical model base 
approach estimate probability detection nde 
application '' , ieee transaction magnetic , vol . 
29 , 
no. 2 , march 1993 . 
s. n. rajesh , l. s. s. , `` estimation 
eddy current probability detection use 3d finite element 
model '' , present 19th annual review progress 
quantitative nondestructive evaluation , san diego , 
california jul 1992 
s. n. rajesh , l. , s. s. n. nakagawa , `` probability 
detection model eddy current nde method '' , present 
18th annual review progress quantitative 
nondestructive evaluation , brunswick , jul 1991 
relevant implemention operating systems electronic devices circuits 
course computer network architecture pulse digital circuit 
work advanced computer communications artificial neural networks 
introduction pattern recognition 
microprocessors computer digital image processing 
organization digital signal processing 
computer technology integrated circuits design 
program 
project implementation fork system call operating 
system . 
also involve implementation cpu 
scheduling algorithm take consideration aging 
process . 
project involve study design 
development internal operating system . 
design development interrupt driven keyboard driver . 
project involve thorough understanding device 
driver . 
design development unix like tree structure 
directory allow creation subdirectory 
organization file accordingly . 
project include 
implementation routine , , cd , l 
rm support directory structure . 
analysis method congestion control computer 
network . 
implementation route algorithm 
distribute network . 
communication network node 
base udp . 
project involve programming c + + . 
simulation various digital logic functional unit 
start basic gate register , counter , adder , 
multiplier , arithmetic logic unit alu . 

project involve extensive c programming unix 
environment . 
work research assistant , center nde , iowa state university , ames , 
experience ia aug 
work involve development application use graphical 
user interface guus toolkit . 
familiar programming 
environment . 
recent work involve development 
multiplatform gui application , c + + , use portable 
gui toolkit + + . 
project support nist national institute 
standards technology . 
research assistant , center nde , iowa state university , ames , 
ia jan 1992 
work involve develop software modeling electromagnetic 
nde technique eddy current method . 
also 
involve optimization code parallel computer 
cray . 
project support faa involve work 
close contact aircraft industry boeing . 
trainee engineer , indian telephone industries , bangalore india . 
work involve design development microprocessor 
8085 base programmable telephone use cordless 
telephone . 
involve programming 8085 microprocessor 
control pulsing action relay telephone 
circuit 1989 . 
computer language : c , c + + , fortran , assembly level . 
skill software : , , computer graphics hoops , 
programming , image processing utilities , , autocad . 
operating systems : unix , , ultrix , ms-dos . 
systems : dec series , hp sun workstations , macintosh , 
stellar . 
parallel systems : cray , ibm , , . 
honours iowa state university graduate college scholarship 
activity jan 
rank 42 20,000 student bachelor 
engineering entrance examination ensure full 
scholarship , state , pursue bachelors 's degree . 
current member ieee 
reference available upon request . 
