: serdar 
subject : re : europe vs. muslim bosnians 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 48 
article < > yannis write : 
> nationality recent invention western europe . 

> day ottoman empire , religion main point 
> difference social class . 
ottomans recognize 
> turks , arabs , greeks , serbs ... christian , muslim , jew ... 
pardon ? 
ignorance cramp conversation . 
although administrative 
mechanism strictly centralize one , ottoman empire ` classical 
example pluralist social order . ' 
` millet system ' mechanism 
shape social order multi-national ottoman empire stand 
behind continuity . 
matter fact , islamic principle 
force ottoman empire , natural use religious 
criterion differentiate among various community constitute 
empire . 
` millet ' system begin base ethnicity 
19th century influence nationalism . 
sousa write 
existence thirteen community ottoman empire addition 
muslim ` millet ' 1914 . 
: 1 greeks attach 
orthodox patriarchate istanbul ; 2 catholics latins 
remnant genoese venetian merchant ; 3 gregorian armenians 
attach patriarchate istanbul ; 4 catholic armenians ; 5 syrian 
catholics attach patriarchate mardin ; 6 chaldean catholics 
attach patriarchate mosul ; 7 syrian jacobites attach 
patriarchate mardin ; 8 protestants ; 9 attach 
patriarchate damascus ; 10 hebrew two rite ; 11 bulgarian 
catholics attach bulgarian exarch ; 12 maronites ; 13 
nestorian . 
1 scholars study pluralistic social structure 
outline briefly , conclude social order ottoman 
empire fit framework ` mosaics theory . ' 
2 
1 n. sousa , `` regime turkey , history , origin 
nature , '' baltimore , 1933 . 
2 c. s. coon , caravan : `` story middle east , '' new york , 1951 , 
p. 162 h. a. r. . 
bowen , `` islamic society west : 
study impact western civilization moslem culture 
near east , '' oxford , 1951 . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
