: william bacon 
subject : scientist believe green house effect 
organization : cellar bbs public access system 
lines : 93 
follow statement release 
february science & 
environmental policy project 
independent scientist research atmosphere climate problem , 
concern agenda unced , united nations conference 
environment development , develop environmental activist 
group certain political leader . 
call `` earth summit '' 
schedule convene brazil june 1992 aim impose system 
global regulation , include onerous tax energy fuel , 
population united states industrialize nation . 
policy initiative derive highly scientific theory . 

base unsupported assumption catastrophic global warming 
follow burning fuel require immediate action . 

agree . 
survey u.s. atmospheric scientist , conduct summer 1991 , 
confirm cause slight warming 
observe past century . 
recently publish research paper even 
suggest sunspot variability directly proportional solar 
activity , rather rise greenhouse gas responsible 
global temperature increase decrease since 1880 . 
, majority scientific participant survey agree 
theoretical climate climate model use predict future warming 
rely upon validate exist climate record . 
yet prediction base theoretical model . 
finally , generally agree increase carbon dioxide 
level fossil fuel burning beneficial effect crop 
world food supply . 
disturb activist , anxious stop energy economic growth , 
push ahead drastic policy without take notice recent 
change underlie science . 
fear rush impose global 
regulation catastrophic impact world economy , job , 
standard living , health care , severe consequence 
fall develop country poor . 
david b. aubrey , phd , senior , woods hole oceanographic institute . 
nathaniel b. guttman , phd , research physical scientist , national climatic 
data center . 
hugh b. , phd , meteorologist , lawerence livermore 
national laboratory . 
richard lindzen , phd , center meteorology 
physical , massachusetts institute technology . 
robert c. 
balling , phd , director , laboratory climatology , arizona state university . 
patrick , phd , assoc. professor environmental sciences , 
virginia . 
roger pielke , phd , professor atmospheric science , 
colorado state university . 
micheal garstang , phd , professor meteorology , 
university virginia . 
sherwood p. , phd , research physicist , u.s. water 
conservation laboratory . 
lev s. gandin phd , visit scientist , national center atmospheric 
research . 
john a. mcginley , chief , forecast research group , forecast systems 
laboratory , noaa . 
h. jean , phd , research scientist , national 
meterological center , national weather service , noaa . 
kenneth v. beard , phd , 
professor atmospheric physics , university illinois . 
paul w. mielke , jr. . 
phd , professor , department statistics , colorado state university . 
thomas 
lockhart , meteorological standards institute . 
peter f. giddings , , weather service director . 
hazen a. , 
, former regional director , national weather service . 
gabriel t. , phd , eminent professor , old dominion university . 
roy 
leep , executive weather director , gillet weather data services . 
terrance j. 
clark , meteorologist , u.s. air force . 
neil l. frank , phd , meteorologist , 
national weather service . 
bruce a. boe , phd , director , north dakota 
atmospheric resource board . 
andrew detweiler , phd , assoc. professor , 
institute atmospheric sciences , south dakota school mines 
technology . 
robert m. cunningham , consulting meteorologist , fellow , american 
meteorological society . 
stephen r. hanna , phd , sigma research corporation , 
elliot abrams , , senior vice president , accuweather , inc. . 
william e. reifsnyder , phd , consulting meteorologist , professor emeritus , 
forest meteorology , yale university . 
david w. , research 
meteorologist . 
jerry a. williams , meteorologist , president , ocean routes , 
inc. . 
lee w. eddington , meteorologist , geophysics division , pacific missile test 
, phd , former dean , college arts & sciences , florida 
state p. rodgers , phd , assoc. professor research 
oceanography , scripps institution . 
brian fiedler , phd , asst 
professor meteorology , university . 
edward a. brandes , . 
melvyn shapiro , chief meteorological 
research wave propagation laboratory , noaa . 
zabransky , jr. , associate 
professor meteorology , plymouth state college . 
james a. moore , project 
manager , research application program , national center atmospheric 
research . 
daniel j mcnaughton , engineering . 
brian 
sussman , meteorologist , fellow , american meteorologist , fellow , american 
meteorological society . 
h read mcgrath , phd , meteorologist . 
robert e. 
, meteorologist . 
william m. porch , phd , atmospheric physicist , los alamos national 
laboratory . 
earle r. williams , phd , associate profesor meteorology , dept. . 
earth , atmospheric , planetary sciences , massachusetts institute 
technology . 
s. fred singer , phd , atmospheric , university 
virginia , director , science & environmental policy project . 

list identification purpose . 
------ 
william bacon 
cellar bbs - 
