: brad yearwood 
subject : re : clipper consider harmful restate amplify 
organization : corporation , petaluma , ca 
lines : 155 
article < > , perry e. metzger write : 
> obviously read information system . 
chip 
> put serial number infomation cypher stream allow 
> identify . 
system rely register 
> people particular phone unit . 
> 
> proposal , let accurate objection . 
> 
presume tell read . 
system may 
rely upon register people particular phone unit , 
necessary know phone unit likely use 
suspect criminal communication obtain unit key 
escrow . 
necessity raise stake favor criminal 's 
coerce collude use person 's clipper phone . 
restate assumption explicitly amplify argument . 
original title perhaps `` distinction legal 
illegal cipher system consider harmful '' , `` clipper consider 
harmful '' inaccurate , eye-catching current context . 
assumption : 
1 . 
clipper make available . 
2 . 
law pass make use cipher system clipper illegal 
either radio system , common carrier system . 
law 
also include enforcement authority listen across relevant radio 
spectrum medium , characterize signal , validate clipper 
wrapper , detect probable use cipher , make 
detection cause action . 
3 . 
escrow key useful , specific clipper chip must 
associate suspect criminal . 
mean minimum 
association common carrier 's unique phone id esn 
clipper chip serial number n store government database . 
observe pairing n esn one record raise 
red flag . 
4 . 
reduce ordinary fraud , cellphone system offer clipper 
also construct esn mechanism much 
much less today 's cellphone . 
5 . 
criminal want inscrutable communication . 
criminal 
entirely stupid ignorant , figure clipper 
cellphone offer excellent security normal circumstance , 
offer security law enforcement presumably 
legitimate wiretap order exist . 
also figure 
wiretap order must necessarily specific cellphone , 
one unique unit key . 
6 . 
criminal want call attention . 

stupid ignorant read , 
know open use cipher likely 
detect , generally avoid use cipher directly 
channel . 
know would raise 
red flag , put give cellphone give person 
immediate suspicion . 
7 . 
impractical reverse engineer skipjack , discover family key f , 
construct functional clone clipper chip . 
# 2 , # 3 , # 4 , # 7 difficult spoof give clipper 
phone without immediate detection . 
difficult obscure one 's 
association specific phone reprogram change chip 
around , criminal motivate find intact phone 
associate someone else . 
criminal conclude 
communication , least limited time , buy , beg , borrow , 
steal use someone 's phone way prevent person 
report compromise phone least time t. encrypted 
communication might record , thus retrievable later , 
criminal delay , quite likely evade , discovery destroy 
abandon phone . 
would unusual innocent person volunteer use clipper 
phone someone else . 
honest subscriber want pay someone 
else 's bill , want fall suspicion . 
leave two source clipper phone criminal use : coercion 
collusion . 
coercion first . 
theft bear relatively low risk , also sometimes 
low time detection minute phone steal 
car park front store , couple week phone steal 
someone away vacation . 
criminal commerce likely 
arise steal clipper phone , phone come poor 
criminal , cash come risk-averse wealthy criminal . 
someone 
extraordinarily motivate gain day two undetected 
communication like terrorist could kill person hold hostage . 
limited time detection coerced phone useful means 
continue criminal enterprise require continue supply 
freshly coerce phone . 
would also create collusive commerce relatively 
wealthy criminal , ignorant - care patsy need money , 
submit pay return subscribe clipper 
phone service someone else 's use . 
criminal learn advantage coerce use 
clipper cellphone apply cipher normal 
cellphone . 
call much less attention least 
steal phone way . 
fact phone 's use coerce must 
first report identify interesting phone , 
key obtain escrow . 
clipper also allow extraordinary opportunity criminal 
conceal use . 
automate surveillance 
mechanism quite feasible across radio bandwidth know family key f , 
validate clipper wrapper n : esn association , reveal 
realtime use , unless know unit key , 
assure make available two separate 
piece , upon specific order . 
whereas criminal 's use cipher within normally medium 
would stand , criminal 's use cipher within clipper 
medium would difficult detect , even ex post facto bulk 
recording , long association criminal specific clipper 
chip fracture . 
make use cipher illegal per se , charge 
criminal identify true criminal - 'll 
use someone else 's phone , 'll evidence help 
whatever traditional crime might plan . 
even 
able detect unusual encrypted communication occur 
identify specific phone obtain key escrow . 
gangster terrorist thus arguably , less , secure 
clipper come along . 
therefore consider clipper harmful : 
1 . 
provide absolute privacy honest public 
aggressive dishonest government . 
2 . 
cipher proscribe , engender new type direct 
criminal threat honest public . 
3 . 
provide extraordinarily effective mechanism criminal 
hide use cipher , make difficult 
ever even gain notice unusual communication occur 
plan criminal act might progress . 
4 . 
cipher proscribe , lazy investigator prosecutor 
likely pursue easily quantifiable crime 
traditional directly harmful crime key 
escrow claim help . 
5 . 
cipher proscribe , stage set witch hunting 
`` illegal '' cipher use . 
computer use cipher 
machine ... 
brad yearwood uunet , pyramid ! 

petaluma , ca 
