: serdar 
subject : - > news - azerbaijan < - 
organization : zuma 
distribution : world 
lines : 500 
article < > f. h. miandoab write : 
follow news turan news agency 
bring service : 

p.o. box 
berkeley , ca 
fax : 
email : 
p l e e make hard copy news available azerbaijani near ! 

h e d l n e | 
new vice-premier plan intensify work attraction 
western investment 
proposal summon special session supreme soviet reject 

prospects cooperation azerbaijan estonia 
azerbaijan intend join ci common economic zone 
question granting credit azerbaijan discussed moscow 
azerbaijan reply second variant trilateral initiative 26 
may 
announcement prosecutor republic azerbaijan 
azerbaijan 's parliament intend appeal russian parliament regarding 
six accused soldier 
armenians prepare `` '' north caucasus 
state assistance national minority development 
memorandum cooperation extracting fields azerbaijan 
sign 
armenia taking advantage prosecution six russian soldier 
new provocations armed forces armenia 
`` unocal '' company build 50 house refugee azerbaijan 
manat beginning fall value 
discussion parliamentary election bill last till mid july 
isa gambar suggest parliament commission clarify 
circumstance criminal case create 
trilateral initiative ruin ? 
fate 645 million tons oil decide summer 
russia appeal president azerbaijan 
armenian artillery continue fire azeri districts 
azeri prime-minister leaving great britain 
new vice-premier plan intensify work attraction 
western investment 
baku may 19 turan : yesterday , rasul guliyev , recently appoint 
vice-premier republic , receive us ambassador azerbaijan , 
richard miles . 
`` azerbaijan '' newspaper inform , issue attraction 
western investment azerbaijan discuss meeting . 

particular , state western capital investigate 
profitable sphere manufacture . 
also notice , number 
priority manufacture release debt . 
guliyev also say intensify activity american oil 
company promote strengthening relation . 
proposal summon special session supreme soviet reject 
baku may 19 turan : yesterday , sit milli mejlis , 
chairman , isa gambar , reject proposal deputy arif 
summon special session supreme soviet azerbaijan . 
written proposal summon session sign 130 . 

chairman say signature invalid proposal could 
submit discussion . 
earlier , leadership milli mejlis call proposal summon 
special session supreme soviet coup attempt . 
deputy 
parliament , , consider 
objective remove milli mejlis chairman power . 
concern 
serious analysis social , economic foreign policy activity 
republic 's authority . 
say parliament , 
eject duty one year ago rights express opinion 
question . 
supreme soviet azerbaijan 340 dissolve one year ago , 
attempt bring ayaz mutalibov back power . 
function s.s. hand milli mejlis , consist 50 
25 `` democrat '' 25 `` '' . 
time `` democrat '' 
`` '' come agreement milli mejlis would exist long 
time would dissolve parliamentary election . 
time , 
eject duty guarantee could summon 
session supreme soviet time go political activity 
parliament . 
-- 0 -- 
prospects cooperation azerbaijan estonia 
baku may 19 turan : prospects sign agreement 
azerbaijan estonia discuss meeting foreign 
minister tofig gasimov group expert ministry economics , 
minister foreign affairs estonian bank administration may 18 . 
group expert head reiman , chief ministry 
economics estonia . 
mia azerbaijan inform turan agency , stay baku , 
delegation also visit ministry economics national bank 
republic . 
-- 0 -- 
azerbaijan intend join ci common economic zone 
baku may 19 turan : deputy prime-minister republic , vahid 
ahmedov abbas abbasov declare azerbaijan would join ci 
common economic zone . 
vahid ahmedov consider ci economic zone proposal create 
common tax system contradict independent economic policy republic . 
accord abbas abbasov , pact cooperation proposal , submit 
discussion leader ci state moscow may 14 , number 
unfavorable point azerbaijan . 
announcement two deputy prime-minister sound sensational 
background fact president azerbaijan chairman 
parliament note necessity republic join ci economic 
zone . 
-- 0 -- 
question granting credit azerbaijan discussed moscow 
baku may 19 turan : today , azerbaijani delegation head director 
foreign relation department ministry finance republic 
along representative national bank leave moscow 
hold consultation russian government grant credit azerbaijan . 
accord preliminary information , credit 50 billion ruble . 
ministry finance inform turan 's correspondent , 
precise amount credit , condition repay number 
question mutual interest discuss course meeting 
moscow . 
know credit mostly use mutual settling 
industrial enterprise azerbaijan russia . 
side reach agreement , propose signing end 
may . 
-- 0 -- 
azerbaijan reply second variant trilateral initiative 26 
may 
baku may 19 turan : measure peace present russia , 
turkey usa azerbaijan armenia , representative 
president azerbaijan talk nagorno-karabakh , asim gasimov note 
plan seriously change comparison first variant . 
`` comment several point add schedule 
insistence armenian side . 
intend come back analysis 
schedule , give positive answer may 6 '' , - say 
gasimov . 
representative president azerbaijan inform 
begin work examination commentary , answer would 
give request author trilateral initiative may 26 . 
know , first variant peace measure reject 
armenia , put forward number pre-condition acceptance . 
-- 0 -- 
announcement prosecutor republic azerbaijan 
baku may 20 turan : azerbaijani prosecutor 's office announce 
russian mass media 's attempt portray 6 russian soldier 
condemn military board azerbaijani supreme court , innocent 
people unjustified . 
accounts witness confession condemn , 
prove crime commit together armenian military unit 
knowledge headquarters russian army unit , 
serve . 
announcement point attempt represent soldier 
ordinary mercenary nothing russian army also 
unfounded . 
irrefutable evidence soldier 
list one military unit 's russian commando yerevan . 
certain russian circle try conceal fact direct participation 
russian army undeclared war armenia azerbaijan 
russian community . 
azerbaijan 's prosecutor 's announcement follow , 
type action make situation region much complicated . 
-- 0 -- 
azerbaijan 's parliament intend appeal russian parliament regarding 
six accused soldier 
baku may 20 turan : turan agency inform , parliament azerbaijan 
consider question appeal russian parliament six 
accuse soldier ' fortune . 
particular , offer send representative 
commission military affair armed force russian federation 
baku detailed study result six russian soldier ' case 
direct russian parliament . 
accord one supporter offer , initiative give 
russian parliament possibility convince correctness 
investigation . 
also chance discuss reason 
give rise present situation - russian troops participation 
war azerbaijan . 
armenian prepare `` '' north caucasus 
baku may 20 turan : front found group 
armenians live north caucasus appeal establish armenian autonomy 
territory rostov , stavropol krasnodar region , - report 
newspaper `` russky vestnik '' march 9 , 1993 publish geneva . 
north caucasus regard integral part armenia 
document organization . 
admit `` reunion '' 
north caucasus `` armenia proper '' present , front appeal 
un , president russia , armenia united states consider 
need establish armenian autonomy caucasus . 
attain goal , armenian organization consider necessary 
carry north caucasus form method activity `` identical 
nagorno karabakh '' . 
besides decision fund cell armenian 
front every settlement appeal leader 
armenian terrorist group greece iran send north caucasus 
instructor training armenian youth wage secret war adopt . 
thus accord newspaper `` russky vestnik '' , `` new karabakh '' 
planning north caucasus . 
-- o -- 
state assistance national minority development 
baku may 20 turan : meeting head state secretary 
azerbaijan , ali kerimov , participation national cultural 
center hold baku . 
first result realization president 
elchibey 's decree state assistance development language 
culture national minority adopt september 16 , 1992 consider . 
state secretary call decree important step establish 
legal democratic state . 
confirm commitment leadership 
azerbaijan set democratic society rights 
nationality ethnic group would respect . 
state counsellor president azerbaijan national policy , 
hidayat , announce spite difficulty `` undeclared 
war '' republic , leader state manage solve many 
problem concern satisfaction cultural need ethnic 
group . 
today , 33 center register ministry 
justice capital azerbaijan provide accommodation , furniture 
mean communication . 
accommodation rent-free 8 foreign 
diplomatic mission baku place hotel absence 
free accommodation include representation un general secretary . 
note , great work carry since decree adopt 
create condition total development ethnic group . 
north 
azerbaijan live , national theater open , 
transmit . 
work creation 
educational literature , tats , kurds national 
teaching scientific staff carry academy sciences 
azerbaijan . 
-- o -- 
memorandum cooperation extracting fields azerbaijan sign 
baku may 20 turan : turan agency inform state 
concern `` '' , memorandum understand company 
`` amoco caspian sea petroleum '' , `` exploration operating '' , `` pennzoil 
caspian '' , `` unocal khazar ltd. '' , `` mcdermott '' turkish oil corporation 
mutual extract field `` azeri '' , `` chirag '' `` '' sign . 
accord memorandum , general group prepare common 
program activity create . 
accord president `` '' , sabit bagirov , cooperation 
provide use experience foreign company efficiently . 
project , main principle effective use 
resource , rational sharing investment , reducing 
exploitation expenditure maximize profit azerbaijan 
exploitation field . 
memorandum also envision necessity take account historical 
interest azerbaijan optimum use 
field . 
-- o -- 
armenia taking advantage prosecution six russian soldier 
baku may 21 turan : azerbaijani court pass sentence 
six russian soldier fight armenian side karabakh , 
armenian propaganda become actively involve . 
armenians live russia appeal president yeltsin 
request `` display firmness assert rights russian 
soldier '' . 
time , armenian mass media call legal proceedings 
case baku `` farce aim get arm russia '' . 
karabakh armenians issue threat recently . 
one could 
believe yerevan agency `` snark '' , armenians karabakh present 
ultimatum authority azerbaijan . 
essence ultimatum 
russian soldier show mercy , three azeri prisoner 
karabakh shoot dead . 
simple explain `` touching attitude armenians '' 
six russian soldier ' fate . 
chance sentence execute 
cause anti-armenian reaction , accuse 
russian soldier recruit yerevan former defense minister 
armenia transfer karabakh . 
soldier get mercy , armenian side think highly 
saving life `` innocent russians '' . 
-- o -- 
new provocations armed forces armenia 
baku may 21 turan : accord defense ministry 
azerbaijan may 20-21 , firing territory azerbaijan 
military basis territory armenia progress . 
day , village , , 
district azerbaijan fire 
district armenia . 
two inhabitant wound , 
destruction village . 
may 20 , firing village , , 
, district 
azerbaijan position armenian armed force 
progress . 
day diversion group armed force 
armenia 50-60 man violate frontier azerbaijan , penetrate 
territory district azerbaijan , kill two 
shepherd village make attempt take 
flock across frontier . 
azeri stop enemy . 
-- o -- 
`` unocal '' company build 50 house refugee azerbaijan 
baku may 21 turan : turan agency inform 
representation unocal american oil company , leader 
company decide give 750 thousand dollar construction 
50 house refugee . 
present , american side suggest village project 
consideration appropriate department azerbaijan . 
project 
farm village house personal lot , subsidiary 
accommodation . 
accord program construction put 
operation village year . 
-- o -- 
manat beginning fall value 
baku may 21 turan : lately , black market baku , 
national currency - manat , fall price compare russian 
ruble . 
thus one give 1100 ruble 120 manat one us dollar . 
take account official manat 
respect ruble 1-10 , national currency fall value 
10 percent . 
meanwhile manat ruble 
bank , state establishment trade . 
accord representative business circle 
expert , present situation explain fact ruble 
buy local businessman . 
need ruble financial 
operation russia . 
remittance payment republic 
former ussr russia great problem , many businessman 
arrange deal cash . 
take consideration volume business 
russia , count billion , hard imagine much 
ruble cash businessman need . 
-- o -- 
discussion parliamentary election bill last till mid july 
baku may 22 turan : accord president 's decree , 
expert group , include representative parliament 
presidential apparatus , work new wording constitution 
republic azerbaijan . 
must adopt milli mejlis 
parliamentary election . 
together , work new 
constitution , would , evidently , adopt new parliament 
country , go . 
newsman inform work 
press-conference supreme soviet republic day . 
parliamentary legal expert , safa mirzoyev , simran hasanov 
representative department president 's apparatus fazil 
shahin aliev take part press-conference . 
national discussion project parliamentary 
election law go present . 
accord simran hasanov bill 
cause objection . 
note , , alternative 
variant election law put forward . 
newsman also inform , parliamentary commission 
examine come proposal till june 10 . 
june 15 
proposal generalize submit discussion milli mejlis . 
-- 0 -- 
isa gambar suggest parliament commission 
clarify circumstance criminal case create 
baku may 22 turan : chairman milly mejlis 
azerbaijan republic , isa gambar , send return letter chairman 
russian supreme soviet ruslan khasbulatov connection 
conviction russian serviceman lieutenant , sergeant 
k. , military college 
supreme court azerbaijan . 
letter , isa gambar suggest commission azerbaijan 
milly mejlis par expert russian supreme 
soviet establish clarify circumstance criminal 
case . 
view , `` conclusion commission could help 
objective solve problem , well kind problem 
future . 
main thing , could help promote 
knowledge involvement russian serviceman crime '' . 
turn , connection russian parliament message , 
milly mejlis adopt resolution may 19 , accord 
permanent commission government building legal policy , human 
rights international relation charge exploration 
problem . 
-- 0 -- 
trilateral initiative ruin ? 
baku may 22 turan : turan agency inform , russian representative 
talk karabakh , vladimir , doubt realization 
trilateral initiative . 
express opinion telephone talk 
representative azerbaijan . 
talk declare , case 
peace process deadlock , russia would pursue yeltsin 's initiative . 
statement russian diplomat , one author 
trilateral initiative , suggest russian leadership 
pave way complete exclusion usa probably turkey 
peacemaking process . 
statement also mean , russia 
us achieve understanding bosnian problem , agree partial 
us departure transcaucasia . 
-- 0 -- 
fate 645 million tons oil decide summer 
baku may 22 turan : president azerbaijan state oil company , 
sabit bagirov , declare recently complete treaty development 
oil field chirag , azeri guneshli would sign summer . 
know , western oil company amoco , , pennzoil - 
ramco interest development three richest caspian 
field . 
accord plan , socar sign complete 
treaty development chirag field june 16 . 
later amoco 
pennzoil sign treaty . 
specialist value total reserve three field 645 
million ton . 
310 million fall azeri field , 180 
150 chirag . 
exploitation field last ten year 
bring azerbaijan 100 billion dollar revenue . 
addition net 
economic profit , baku calculate upon political support west 
defense interest international scene . 
president elchibey say closest encirclement `` may 
1993 one difficult period azerbaijan 
independence stand test '' . 
-- 0 -- 
russia appeal president azerbaijan 
baku may 22 turan : president azerbaijan 
inform , today , appeal institute government law 
russian academy sciences president elchibey receive . 
appeal contain call `` display mercy , humanism clemency 
death sentence former serviceman russian armed 
force '' . 
author appeal point , justify 
participation russian serviceman war azeri people , 
call question lawfulness pass sentence , denounce 
mercenary accord un principal , sorry 
russian serviceman draw grave crime . 
end letter , scientist , mention soldier ' 
mother ' tear grief , pray day night safety , ask 
president azerbaijan `` save guy '' . 
notice , unlike lawyer , soldier ' mother , 
take part inquiry , call cause grief 
russian policy . 
accord word , leader , lay 
life russian man achieve political aim , must make 
answerable . 
unfortunately , appeal mention grief mother 
azerbaijani soldier , kill sentence russian serviceman . 
-- 0 -- 
armenian artillery continue fire azeri districts 
baku may 22 turan : may 22 , two soldier national army 
azerbaijan kill `` grad '' shell village 
, , , district 
republic territory district armenia . 
night morning may 22 , village 
tovuz , district azerbaijan fire 
territory armenia . 
destruction . 
situation agder district azerbaijan become complicate . 
may 21 , enemy fire regional center 
village . 
transportation man power military equipment 
district progress . 
accord report enemy set 
new weapon emplacement fire regional center near 
village . 
accord ministry internal affairs , concentration 
man power military equipment observe 
district armenia border azerbaijan well 
frontier fizuli district . 
-- o -- 
azeri prime-minister leaving great britain 
baku may 22 turan : minister foreign economic relations , 
rauf garayev , interview turan agency say , 
`` great britain biggest foreign economic partner azerbaijan 
iran '' . 
business cooperation two country 
develop sphere oil - industry , manufacture oil 
extraction equipment , communication agriculture . 
accord minister 's word , forthcoming visit 
azerbaijani prime-minister , panah huseynov , great britain may 
23-24 , important . 
expect , visit 
help , solve problem open azerbaijan branch 
office british bank , insurance firm ; conclude 
contract sphere manufacture agricultural equipment ; 
building azerbaijan shore oil platform , reconstruction 
entire communication system azerbaijan . 
garayev 's view , expansion cooperation great britain 
great political meaning azerbaijan . 
accord politician reviewer baku , present , great 
britain european state close azerbaijan . 
continuation 
economic political cooperation two state foresee . 
-- o -- 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 
u r n n e w g e n c y 
baku - azerbaijan 
phone : 
fax : 
telex : meta su 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
