: `` nigel allen '' < > 
subject : result gusto heart attack study release friday 
: `` nigel allen '' < > 
organization : canada remote systems 
distribution : sci 
lines : 61 
press release medical science communications . 
result gusto heart attack study release friday 
: assignment desk , medical writer 
contact : jim augustine medical science communication , 
, steve hull tracy furey , 
april 29-30 , 
j.w. marriott 
news advisory : 
result largest heart attack study ever undertake , 
global utilization streptokinase occluded 
coronary artery trial gusto , present friday , april 
30 , clinical research meet . 
press conference hold 12:30 p.m. 
gusto evaluate aggressive treatment 
strategy available clear block heart artery restore 
blood flow heart , process call thrombolysis . 

thrombolytic strategy compare gusto use powerful drug break 
blood clot heart vessel quickly prevent clot 
recur . 
strategy never compare directly 
large-scale clinical trial gusto . 
result expect 
important impact heart attack treatment worldwide . 
press conference hold two location : live 
national press club , main lounge , 13th floor , 529 14th st. , n.w. , 
washington d.c. , via satellite hotel macklowe , 145 w. 44th 
street , 4th floor , new york city , broadway 6th avenue . 
gusto result present eric topol m.d. , gusto study 
chairman , professor chairman department cardiology 
cleveland clinic foundation ; robert califf , m.d. , clinical 
director , gusto coordinate center associate professor 
medicine duke university medical center ; allan ross , m.d. , 
coordinator gusto angiographic professor 
director division cardiology george washington 
university medical center . 
------ 
editorial television : press conference may 
view entirety via satellite start 12:30 p.m. edt 
c-band 302 , transponder 2v dual audio 6.2 , 6.8 , 
transponder 8 . 
follow press conference , news 
package feed . 
illustration also 
available press conference . 
telephone hook press conference plan . 
availability limit ; please call mc information . 
reporter sheraton washington attend 
clinical research meet friday morning , minibus transportation 
provide press conference . 
bus depart 
12 p.m. ; also available return sheraton 
press conference . 
information , contact steve hull tracy furey mcs , 
gusto study group , ; j.w. marriott 
april 29 april 30 . 

information clinical research meet , contact jim 
augustine medical science communications . 
-30 - 
-- 
canada remote systems - toronto , ontario 

