: paul harvey 
subject : daniel v. zoroaster , jewish discomfort jesus 
organization : duck pond public unix : +1 , log ` guest ' . 
lines : 281 
article < > 
bill carlson write : 
> since everywhere look , zoroaster suggest probable 
> descendant daniel ; suppose prove . 
zoroaster far older daniel . 
anything , one could claim , 
sense , daniel descendant zoroaster ; daniel , though 
hebrew , assimilate zoroastrianism successfully 
introduce religion tanakh judaism . 
however , majority 
book hellenistic aramaic babylonian aramaic 
write status . 
ref : encyclopedia religion , mircea eliade : 
daniel , , hebrew , ` l ; hero biblical book bear name . 
daniel present jew babylonian exile achieve notoriety 
royal court dream interpretation cryptography 
salvation death lion 's pit . 
also appear last chapter 
book revealer divine mystery timetable israel 's 
restoration autonomy . 
practitioner 
court , describe daniel 1-6 write third person , daniel per - 
form interpretation alone , , daniel 
7-12 write first person , need angel help 
decode vision mystery future . 
likely name 
daniel pseudonymous , deliberate allusion wise righteous man know 
ugaritic legend earlier biblical tradition . 
ez . 
. 
authorship book complicate diverse narrative 
voice content language : daniel 1:1 8-12 write 
hebrew , whereas daniel 2:4 b-7 :28 aramaic . 
language division parallel 
subject division daniel 1-6 concern legend dream interpretation ; 
7-12 concern apocalyptic vision interpretation older prophecy . 

overall chronological scheme well internal thematic balance daniel 2-7 
related suggest attempt unity . 

prefatory tale emphasize life court loyalty daniel 
youth ancestral religion , chronological order discernable : 
sequence king darius report dn . 
7-12 . 
much 
royal date even tale problematic : example , 
daniel 4 speak 's transformation beast , story 
report qumran scroll nabonidus ; belshazzar portray 
last king babylon , although never king ; darius call mede 
conquer babylon place cyrus ii persia , although 
darius know medes follow persians , darius name 
several persian king . 
presumably episode daniel 2-6 , depict 
series monarchical reversal , episode ritual observance , report 
miraculous deliverance collect seleucid period late fourth 
century bce order reinvigorate wane jewish hope divine 
providence encourage steadfast faith . 
vision daniel 7-12 , report event reign belshazzar 
cyrus ii actually predict overthrow seleucid rule 
palestine , collect publish reign antiochus iv prior 
maccabean revolt , beginning 168 bce jews 
put test concern allegiance judaism ancestral 
tradition , many refuse desecrate statue moses endure 
martyr 's death resolute trust divine dominion . 
vision 
daniel dramatize dominion different way : example , via image 
enthronement god judgment , `` son man '' invest rule 
figure interpret jews michael archangel christian 
christ , chapter 7 ; via zodiacal image cosmic beast bizarre 
manifestation , chapter 8 ; via complex reinterpretation ancient 
prophecy , especially jeremiah -11 , find daniel 9-12 . 
imagery four beast chapter 7 parallel image four 
metal chapter 2 , represent four kingdom overthrow fifth 
monarchy divine origin , one enduring image book ; sur - 
vive prototype jewish christian historical apocalyptic scheme 
end middle ages . 
role power imagery 
fifteenth sixteenth century work exegete isaac abravanel , 
scientist isaac newton , philosopher jean bodin among fifth 
monarchy men seventeenth century england , example , abide testimony 
use ancient topo organize imagination 
diverse thinker group . 
schema still use day various 
group predict apocalyptic advent . 
encouragement face religious persecution find 
propagandize daniel 11-12 contain remarkable reinterpretation isaiah 
, regard suffer servant god israel 
select faithful . 
neither opening story daniel youth 
final allusion advocate violence revolt ; rather 
advocate stance piety , civil disobedience , trustful resignation . 
victory faithful hand archangel michael , 
martyr resurrect grant astral immortality . 

circle behind book maccabean fighter may 
reflect group hasidim , pietist . 
theme 
resistance oppression , freedom worship , preservation monotheistic 
integrity , overthrow historical dominion , acknowledgement 
god heaven recur throughout book serve token 
trust faithful darkest hour . 
, founder religion know zoroastrianism 
mazda ahura mazda , name god prophesy . 

etymology history , avestan oldest form name , 
uncertain , various iranian language related form else - 
. 
may old persian form , , 
greek form , , may derive , may exist old 
iranian form , , may link middle iranian , 
several middle persian form , new persian . 
state certainty second half name , , 
means `` camel . '' 
form zoroaster , derive greek , use 
traditionally european culture eighteenth century , 
zarathustra , closer original find nietzsche , come 
common use rediscovery avesta , collection sacred book 
zoroastrianism , result study iranian philology . 
see avesta . 
notwithstanding great continue popularity , even 
western culture , source available , extremely fragmented , 
heterogeneous . 
principle source five gathas `` song '' , 
attribute include yasna section 
avesta : gatha yasna , gatha yasna , gatha 
yasna , gatha yasna 51 , gatha 
yasna 53 , last probably write 
prophet 's death . 
source considerable , albeit vary , importance younger 
avesta remain zoroastrian religious literature , particular 
pahlavi text ninth tenth ce . 
although achaemenid 
inscription sixth fourth bce never mention , 
mention greek source time , however , herodotus , 
seem unaware . 
avesta provide direct explicit datum concern true 
chronological history . 
text useful indirect 
way , clearly imply environment zoroastrianism arise 
iran medes persians . 
greek source , 
hand , provide information concern time , 
although historical point view unreliable . 
place 
six thousand year trojan war xanthus lydia , eudoxus cnidus , 
, , aristotle , plutarch , diogenes laertius , pliny . 

account xanthus lydia , however , also interpret mean 
six hundred , rather six thousand , year expedition xerxes 
greece . 
interpretation favor diogenes laertius , make 
reference xanthus , although scholar a. s. , helmut 
recently attempt rehabilitate various pretext , 
generally reject . 
although historical value greek source negligible , 
nonetheless important show millenarian doctrine history 
cosmos already develop iran achaemenid period , 
account would seem demonstrate . 
also show time 
already see almost mythical figure , one 
extremely distant past . 
lead conclusion prophet 
could belong historical period contemporary , even close 
, achaemenids . 
later zoroastrian source , pahlavi text , provide absolute chrono - 
logy , one also accept arab author . 
accord - 
ing source , live 300 258 year alexander . 
, scholar divide validity chronology ; view 
historically reliable believe devoid historical 
justification . 
convincing argument , however , seem support 
latter position . 
figure 258 year accurate surface 
represent , fact , general one 300 , employ 
propagandist locate 's lifetime roughly around 
beginning iranian domination . 
number reason connect complex 
problem inherent iranian chronology , also desire 
part propagandist avoid millenarian threat . 

context , , tradition place early ninth millennium 
beginning cosmos , convert vishtaspa age forty-two , 
vishtaspa 's conversion view beginning millennium 
thus explain double date 300 258 year alexander . 
give unreliability available source , force 
reconstruct absolute chronology basis element , principally 
contention must live century cyrus 
great , cambyses , darius , mention avesta 
great political achievement take place western iran middle 
first millennium bce . 
mention history 
period , lead iran position predominance . 

time , number reason , go back much history would 
justified . 
consequently , traditionally accept theory place zara - 
around beginning first millennium bce appear 
legitimate . 
's land origin , many scholar agree , basis 
valid argument , must come eastern iran . 
hold 
mede , largely late iranian tradition link 
azerbaijan , also linguistic reason , base language 
avesta . 
hypothesis , however , discard , suppose , 
historical linguistic grounds , come east , 
even though know precisely region . 
considerable 
variety opinion particular matter , include improbable view 
come , present-day khorezm , wider 
region , reach far oasis merv herat . 
likely , however , 
's land origin somewhere vast area stretch 
hindu kush mountain range southern region bactria arachosia 
modern qandahar , well area lake helmand . 
would 
thus locate afghanistan border region iran . 
tell belong priestly caste yasna 
33.6 . 
cf. sanskrit , , priest belong 
specific group connect school produce elaborate learn 
religious poetry . 
even so-called younger avesta describe 
13.94 , general term encompass entire priestly 
caste . 
enter undergo long rigid training , use 
lend dignity gathas contents new message , 
product great original ethical mind . 
also belong venerable priestly tradition , link india 
iran another way , center teaching praise , 
`` possessor asha , '' , one , vedic , seek 
truth master , thus become life - almost initiate - 
bless death . 
good follower teaching seek `` vision 
asha , '' chose right path vedic india aspire 
`` vision sun , '' manifestation rta . 
behind concept 
language lie great tradition `` aryan mysticism , '' , indo-iranian 
mysticism . 
's greatness , however , lie belong 
particular religious tradition . 
rather , lie innovation strength 
message , break tradition , one force - 
fully effectively introduce two great revolutionary idea : dualistic 
monotheism wise lord father two twin spirit , beneficent 
evil ; expectation transfiguration , ; , 
life existence . 
see 
monotheistic dualistic idea particular soteriological 
doctrine deeply separate 's teaching indo-iranian - 
tion upbringing . 
exemplify rebellion formalistic 
ritualistic religion provide adequate answer problem 
evil . 
basic tenet , , advocate inward 
religiosity right individual resist imperative - 
tion , number among greatest religious figure . 
another original facet 's message , one easy 
understand , however , hold key deeper understanding 
complex intellectual poetic structure gathas , doctrine 
amesha , `` beneficent immortal . '' 

abstract notion good thought , best truth , desirable power , bounteous 
devotion , wholeness , immortality , operate accord 
system interrelation correlation simultaneously 
manifestation divinity human virtue . 
see amesha . 
name father , `` possess gray horse '' , 
mother , `` one milk '' , know almost nothing 
's life . 
late pahlavi text also give name four brother . 
accord tradition , leave home age twenty , 
thirty subject revelation , intense powerful 
inspiration vision . 
ten year pass , however , 
succeed convert cousin , , belief . 

strongly oppose native land , , , priestly 
group associate traditional teaching practice . 
hostility 
cause leave region yasna seek refuge court 
kavi vishtaspa , ruler convert new religion together 
wife , , prophet , accord tradition , forty-two 
year old . 
also know name son , isat vastra `` desire pasture '' , 
three daughter bear first wife , well name two 
son , `` commanding man '' `` '' , bear 
second wife , , member influential `` possess good 
cattle '' family . 
two figure belong family mention : 
, former 's father , latter 
husband third daughter prophet , `` thoughtful '' , 
whose wedding celebrate fifth gathas yasna 53 . 
, 
accord tradition , die age seventy-seven . 

assassinate , priest old religion , belong 
tribe call tur name know pahlavi 
form . 
paucity information prophet 's life compensate - 
tion , rich legendary detail , arise century zoroastrian 
community . 
main text document tradition seventh book 
denkard , pahlavi work date ninth century ce , well 
passage pahlavi text new persian work thirteenth 
century , book , write 
. 
mythical ritual element prevail later legend 
, idealize symbol make archetype 
perfect man . 
's great popularity ancient world continue throughout 
renaissance enlightenment . 
classical hellenistic 
period view wise man , typical representative `` alien 
wisdom , '' master secret heaven earth , seer , astrologer , 
psychologist , wonder worker . 
pythagorean thinker go far see 
influence pythagoras , academicians always 
openly admire persian thinker found school magi 
advocate doctrine dualism . 
earliest christianity view 
precursor christian faith , one prophesy , 
biblical prophet , advent messiah also predict supernatural 
sign come , star appear east guide three 
magi manger bethlehem . 
see magi . 
christian interpretation 
derive zoroastrian doctrine , savior 
future . 
see . 
later , however , religious struggle arise 
empire persia third seventh century ce , link 
spread christianity roman empire . 
's popularity 
christian world begin decline . 
iranian prophet , praise 
often gnostic school see mani one three 
great messenger past , see , instead , leader imposture 
heresy , teacher diabolic art witchery . 
- 
ance enlightenment , european culture revert image zara - 
come classical hellenistic antiquity . 

view , , great wise man , author _ chaldean 
oracles _ probably inventor , teacher astrology , 
possible bridge christianity platonism , , time 
voltaire , symbol non-christian wisdom . 
western philology rediscover eighteenth 
nineteenth century , friedrich nietzsche , intentional paradox , give 
name zarathustra hero work _ also sprach zarathustra _ 1883 - 
1892 . 
nietzsche see iranian prophet first discover 
true motive force underlie thing , , eternal struggle 
good evil . 
see also zoroastrianism 
