: serdar 
subject : genocide 204,000 azeris armenians ... 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 118 
article < > boris a. < > write : 
> maybe follow example help . 
understandable 
> view alone . 
nevertheless independent 
` alone ' ? 
sorry , follow western scholar force disagree 
. 
first world war ensue year - , 
armenians premeditated systematic genocide , 
try complete centuries-old policy annihilation 
turks kurds savagely murder 2.5 million muslims 
deport rest 1,000 year homeland . 
attempt genocide justly regard first instance 
genocide 20th century act upon entire people . 
event incontrovertibly prove historian , government 
international political leader , u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador layard , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , papazian , nalbandian , 
, jorge blanco villalta , general , general 
, general , general , , 
kazimir , , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , boghos nubar , sarkis , , rachel 
bortnick , halide edip , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul many 
. 
j. c. hurewitz , professor government emeritus , former director 
middle east institute , columbia university . 
bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor near eastern history , 
princeton university . 
halil , university professor ottoman history & member 
american academy arts & sciences , university chicago . 
peter golden , professor history , rutgers university , newark . 
stanford shaw , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
thomas naff , professor history & director , middle east research 
institute , university pennsylvania . 
ronald jennings , associate professor history & asian studies , 
university illinois . 
howard reed , professor history , university connecticut . 
, distinguished university professor political 
science , city university graduate school , new york . 
john woods , associate professor middle eastern history , 
university chicago . 
john masson smith , jr. , professor history , university 
california berkeley . 
alan fisher , professor history , michigan state university . 
avigdor levy , professor history , brandeis university . 
andreas g. e. , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
kathleen burrill , associate professor turkish study , columbia university . 
roderic davison , professor history , george washington university . 
walter denny , professor history , university massachusetts . 
caesar farah , professor history , university minnesota . 
tom goodrich , professor history , indiana university pennsylvania . 
tibor , professor emeritus turkish study , columbia university . 
justin mccarthy , professor history , university louisville . 
jon , professor history , portland state university oregon . 
robert olson , professor history , university kentucky . 
madeline , professor history , university maryland . 
james , professor turkish study , university michigan . 
... . 
. 
list go ... 
genocide azeri people armenians : 
source : channel 4 news 19.00 , monday 2 march 1992 . 
2 french journalist see 32 corpse man , woman child 
civilian clothes . 
many shoot dead head close 
less 1 meter . 
source : bbc1 morning news , tuesday 3 march 1992 . 
bbc reporter live line claim see 100 
body azeri man , woman child well baby shoot 
dead head short distance . 
source : bbc1 morning news , tuesday 3 march 1992 . 
disturbing picture show many civilian corpse 
pick mountain . 
reporter say , cameraman western 
journalist see 100 corpse , man , woman , 
child , massacre armenians . 
shoot dead 
head close 1 meter . 
picture also show nearly ten body 
mainly woman child shoot dead head . 
azerbaijan 
claim 1000 civilian massacre armenian force . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
