: serdar 
subject : re : europe vs. muslim bosnians 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 76 
article < > satya prabhakar write : 
> actually , strife yugoslavia go back long way . 
muslims , 
> collaboration nazis , serbians first world 
> war serb muslims . 
fresh case 
faintest idea literature 
refer . 
explicit statement document ? 

interpretation statement literature ? 
figment 
imagination nazi armenian propaganda movie script ? 

case , fascinating piece analysis . 
fact : 
source : walker , christopher : `` armenia : survival nation . '' 
new york st. martin 's press , 1980 . 
generally work contain follow information 
direct relevance nazi holocaust : 
dro butcher , former dictator armenia 
architect genocide 2.5 million muslims , respected 
nazi armenian leader , establish armenian provisional republic 
berlin world war ii ; 
b ` provisional government ' fully endorse espouse social 
theory nazis , declare armenians member 
aryan ` ; ' 
c publish anti-semitic , racist journal , thereby align 
nazis effort exterminate jews ; , 
d mobilize armenian army 30,000 member fight side 
side wehrmacht . 
fact , 1942 , nazi armenians europe establish vast 
network pro-german collaborator , extend two continent . 
thousand armenians serve german army waffen-ss 
russia western europe . 
armenians involve espionage 
activity hitler balkans arabian peninsula . 
promise ` independent ' state german ` protection ' 
agreement sign ` armenian national council . ' 
copy 
agreement find ` congressional record , ' november 1 , 
1945 ; see document 1 . 
side atlantic , nazi armenians 
aware brethren alliance . 
often express 
pro-nazi sentiment america enter war . 
1941 , jews assemble doom nazi 
concentration camp , nazi armenians germany form first 
armenian battalion fight alongside nazis . 
1943 , battalion 
grow eight battalion 30,000-strong command dro 
butcher , former dictator armenia 
architect cold-blooded genocide 2.5 million turks kurds 
. 
armenian national council form notorious 
dashnak party leader berlin , recognize nazis . 
encouraged 
, armenians summarily form provisional government endorse 
espouse fully principle nazis declare 
member aryan super race full participant hitler 's policy 
extermination jews . 
conspiracy jews wwii `` encore '' 
performance stage armenians wwi , 
exterminate 2.5 million muslims collude invade russian army . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
