: serdar 
subject : armenia get away turkish genocide 's cover-up . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 118 
article < > r write : 
> know true ? 
well , apparently another son dro ` butcher ' contend . 
indeed happy know rekindle huge discussion 
distortion propagate several contemporary . 
feel 
simply act armenian governmental crony forum 
sadly mistaken duly embarrassed . 
lecture 
another historical revisionist genocide apologist , fact . 
dissect , , line-by-line , 
, , write net , plan 
` prove ' armenian genocide 2.5 million turks kurds 
nothing less classic genocide . 
neither 
union , similar ultra-nationalist fascist dictatorship , 
employ dictate hitler quell domestic unrest . 
also , feel 
free distribute response nearest terrorist , 
armenian , affiliate armenian 
criminal organization . 
armenian government get away genocide 2.5 million 
turkish man , woman child enjoy fruit genocide . 
, like , get away genocide 's cover-up . 
first world war ensue year - , 
armenians premeditated systematic genocide , 
try complete centuries-old policy annihilation 
turks kurds savagely murder 2.5 million muslims 
deport rest 1,000 year homeland . 
attempt genocide justly regard first instance 
genocide 20th century act upon entire people . 
event incontrovertibly prove historian , government 
international political leader , u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador layard , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , papazian , nalbandian , 
, jorge blanco villalta , general , general 
, general , general , , 
kazimir , , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , boghos nubar , sarkis , , rachel 
bortnick , halide edip , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul many 
. 
j. c. hurewitz , professor government emeritus , former director 
middle east institute , columbia university . 
bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor near eastern history , 
princeton university . 
halil , university professor ottoman history & member 
american academy arts & sciences , university chicago . 
peter golden , professor history , rutgers university , newark . 
stanford shaw , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
thomas naff , professor history & director , middle east research 
institute , university pennsylvania . 
ronald jennings , associate professor history & asian studies , 
university illinois . 
howard reed , professor history , university connecticut . 
, distinguished university professor political 
science , city university graduate school , new york . 
john woods , associate professor middle eastern history , 
university chicago . 
john masson smith , jr. , professor history , university 
california berkeley . 
alan fisher , professor history , michigan state university . 
avigdor levy , professor history , brandeis university . 
andreas g. e. , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
kathleen burrill , associate professor turkish study , columbia university . 
roderic davison , professor history , george washington university . 
walter denny , professor history , university massachusetts . 
caesar farah , professor history , university minnesota . 
tom goodrich , professor history , indiana university pennsylvania . 
tibor , professor emeritus turkish study , columbia university . 
justin mccarthy , professor history , university louisville . 
jon , professor history , portland state university oregon . 
robert olson , professor history , university kentucky . 
madeline , professor history , university maryland . 
james , professor turkish study , university michigan . 
... . 
. 
list go ... 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
