: herman rubin 
subject : u.s. government science technolgy investment 
organization : purdue university statistics department 
lines : 75 
article < > write : 
> people criticize `` big government '' project rarely seem 
> consistent view role government science 
> technology . 
basically , u.s. government get role 
> support research private industry find expensive 
> long-term . 
> historically , role u.s. gov ' force upon 
> socialism country . 
order u.s. industry 
> compete government-subsidized foreign competitor , u.s. gov ' 
> take role r&d . 
definitely nothing entry government 
support science ; relevant technology . 

little involvement federal fund , except support 
state university , state fund , scientific research wwii . 
us research position grow steadily , funding 
mainly university private foundation fund . 

many research university , provide researcher 
low teaching load , laboratory , assistant , equipment , fund 
travel scientific meeting . 
much , provide , 
university wish get scholar consider research funding well 
salary . 
wwii , military defense department find pure 
scientist could quite well problem , even though 
exactly area scientist ' expertise . 

probably `` research mind '' approach , try 
find solution , understand problem see solution 
emerge . 
work stage , research scientist use 
discussion problem , job get . 
military realize importance maintain scientist 
future , start fund pure research wwii . 
congress 
unwilling military fund divert investment 
future supply scientist , set organization , 
nsf , job . 
also set elaborate procedure supposedly 
keep politics . 
also , government job private foundation , 
make difficult act support research . 
worst part federal involvement area 
government support research university provide funding , 
fact expect scholar bring net government money . 
suppose , 
case , project could use assistance 
graduate student month . 
think happen ask 
one ? 
answer get , `` get money nsf . '' 

money university level thousand , nsf level 
come 20 thousand , likely keep faculty member 
get support . 
government , effect , decide project 
get support , much . 
also , government decide `` wealth '' spread . 
instead 
moderate number university primarily research 
institution , idea school get act come 
. 
instead evaluate scholar , go evaluate 
reseach proposal . 
researcher , tell research proposal 
mainly wishful thinking , happen , investigator conceal 
already work release result research . 

propose today may solve funding grant , may find 
impossible , may find difficult . 
addition , tomorrow 
may get unexpected research result . 
possibly may bet bright idea 
solve yesterday 's difficult problem , whole new approach 
something consider develop . 
nature beast , 
except really vague statement , something predict , 
major research , development routine activity require 
minimal attention good researcher . 
believe time less quality research would 
happen government never get , government 
try divert researcher thinker plodder . 
-- 
herman rubin , dept. statistics , purdue univ. , west lafayette 
phone : 
internet , bitnet 
! 
uucp 
