: 
subject : `` universe motion '' book review 
organization : university wisconsin eau claire 
lines : 141 
book review : 
`` universe motion '' , dewey b. larson , 1984 , north 
pacific publishers , portland , oregon , 456 page , index , 
hardcover . 
`` universe motion '' contain final solution 
astrophysical mystery . 
book volume iii revise enlarged 
edition `` structure physical universe '' , 1959 . 
volume `` nothing motion '' 1979 , volume ii 
`` basic properties matter '' 1988 . 
book journal article subject 
astrophysics bristle integral , partial 
differential , fancy mathematics . 
book , 
contrast , mathematics conspicuous absence , except 
relatively simple formula text . 
larson emphasize concept declare mathematical 
agreement theory guarantee conceptual 
validity . 
dewey b. larson retired engineer bachelor 
science degree engineering science oregon state 
university . 
develop theory describe book 
try find way mathematically calculate 
property chemical compound base element 
contain . 
`` universe motion '' describe astrophysical 
portion larson 's consistent , integrated , comprehensive , 
general unified theory physical universe , kind 
`` grand unified field theory '' orthodox physicist 
claim look . 
build two 
postulate physical mathematical nature 
space time : 
1 physical universe compose entirely one 
component , motion , exist three dimension , discrete 
unit , two reciprocal aspect , space time . 
2 physical universe conform relation 
ordinary commutative mathematics , primary magnitude 
absolute , geometry euclidean . 
two postulate , larson able build 
complete theoretical universe , photon subatomic 
particle giant elliptical galaxy , combine 
concept inward outward scalar motion 
translational , vibrational , rotational , rotational - 
vibrational motion . 
step development , 
able match part theoretical universe 
corresponding part real physical universe , include 
even thing yet discover . 
example , 1959 
book , first predict existence exploding galaxies , 
several year astronomer start find . 

necessary consequence comprehensive theory . 

quasar discover , related explanation 
ready also . 
result theory , call `` 
reciprocal system '' , larson totally reject many 
sacred doctrine orthodox physicist astrophysicist , 
include black hole , neutron star , degenerate matter , 
quantum wave mechanic apply atomic structure , 
`` nuclear '' physics , general relativity , relativistic mass 
increase , relativistic doppler shift , nuclear fusion 
star , big bang , consider 
nothing mathematical fantasy . 

critical ad hoc assumption , uncertainty principle , 
solution principle , `` way '' declaration , etc. , 
use maintain . 
`` universe motion '' divide 31 chapter . 
begin description galaxy build 
gravitational attraction globular star cluster , 
form intergalactic gas dust cloud 
accumulate decay product cosmic ray come 
anti-matter half physical universe . 
galaxy 
formation mythical `` big bang '' big mystery 
orthodox astronomer . 
go describe life 
cycle star binary multiple star system 
solar system result type supernova explosion 
single star . 
several chapter devote quasar , accord 
larson , cluster star 
eject central bulge explode galaxy 
actually travel faster speed light 
although speed away us time . 
astronomer astrophysicist run 
observation contradict theory would find 
larson 's explanation quite valuable consider 
open mind . 
example , use believe gamma ray 
burst originate pulsar , exist primarily 
plane central bulge galaxy . 
new gamma ray 
telescope earth orbit observe burst come 
direction uniformly correspond 
visible object , except case directional 
coincidence . 
larson 's explanation gamma ray 
burst originate supernova explosion anti-matter 
half physical universe , larson call `` cosmic 
sector '' . 
anti-matter universe exist 
reciprocal relation material universe , speed 
light boundary , three 
dimension time one dimension space , 
burst pop material universe anywhere seemingly 
random . 
larson heavily quote paraphrase statement 
book , journal article , lead physicist 
astronomer . 
book , 351 superscript 
number identify entry reference list 
end book . 
example , quote book 
`` astronomy : cosmic journey '' , william k. hartmann , 
say , `` hope understand star would brighten 
could explain exactly binary multiple star 
form ... unfortunately . '' 
larson 's book contain 
logical consistent explanation mystery 
worthy serious consideration physicist , 
astronomer , astrophysicist . 
information , answer question , etc. , 
please consult cited sources larson 's book . 
reproduction dissemination 
important book review encourage . 
robert e. mcelwaine 
b.s. , physics astronomy , 
