: paul harvey 
subject : magi matthew jewish discomfort jesus 
organization : duck pond public unix : +1 , log ` guest ' . 
lines : 238 
article < > 
bill carlson write : 
> since everywhere look , zoroaster suggest probable 
> descendant daniel ; suppose prove . 
ref : encyclopedia religion , mircea eliade 
magi : 
sneak preview : later still , eschatology apocalyptic fertile meeting 
ground iranian judeo-christian religion , see famous 
_ oracle _ , work whose iranian root undeniable 
likely date beginning christian era , probably 
second century ce , 1968 . 
zoroastrian doctrine savior 
future basis story come magi 
bethlehem _ gospel matthew _ 2:1 -12 . 
old persian word magu , render greek mago , uncertain 
etymology . 
may originally mean `` member tribe , '' 
avestan compound `` hostile member tribe '' . 
meaning 
would , among medes , `` member priestly 
tribe '' perhaps `` priest '' benveniste , 1938 ; boyce , 1982 . 
term 
probably median origin , give herodotus mention `` '' one 
six tribe medes . 
variety reason consider magi member 
priestly tribe median origin western iran . 
among persians , 
responsible liturgical function , well maintain 
knowledge holy occult . 
likely , supremacy median 
priesthood western iran become establish time median 
monarchy dominate persians end eighth century 
first half sixth century bce revolt cyrus 
great 550 bce . 
persians indebted medes political 
civil institution well . 
even hypothesis advance 
concern existence magi persian origin achaemenid period 
boyce , 1982 , must still maintain median origin . 

demonstrate revolt , mention 
darius bce inscription iran , well 
greek source . 
indeed , herodotus insist idea power 
medes persians conspiracy magi . 
fact magi may member tribe hand 
sacerdotal art hereditary fashion naturally exclude 
possibility undertake secular . 
seem 
attest elamite tablet persepolis . 
theses , put forth giuseppe messina , deny magi 
member ethnic group suggest simply member 
priesthood - priesthood purely zoroastrian origin . 
thesis 
untenable ; hand , hypothesis name relate 
avestan term , derive maga vedic , magha , `` gift '' , 
without foundation mole , 1963 . 
meaning maga probably find , 
conformity pahlavi tradition , within context concept 
purity , separation `` mixture '' two oppose principle spirit 
matter . 
maga , erroneously interpret `` chorus , '' 
root , say mean `` sing magic song '' nyberg , 1966 
render simply expression like unio mystica , seem 
ecstatic condition open mind spiritual vision . 
case , though 
may relation old persian term magu avestan term 
maga , must maintain clear distinction magi 
avestan priesthood . 
avesta ignore median old persian term , despite 
recent hypothesis propose h.w. bailey ; old persian inscription ignore 
avestan term `` priest , '' vedic , , even 
perhaps present setting elamite tablet persepolis 
, 1964 . 
term magu present zoroastrianism throughout history ; 
pahlavi term represent continuation . 
latter 
particular derive older form , `` head magi '' . 

period third seventh century ce , see formation 
hierarchically organize church , title `` high priest 
high priest '' come use designate summit ecclesiastical 
hierarchy . 
magi practice consanguineous marriage , ; , 
. 
also perform characteristic funeral rite : exposure 
corpse animal vulture remove flesh thereby cleanse . 
corpse suppose decompose , lest contaminate demon 
putrefaction . 
practice later become typical entire zoroastrian 
community lead rise complex funeral ritual iran among 
parsis india . 
stone tower , know , build especially 
rite . 
time herodotus practice exposure corpse 
vogue among magi ; persians generally sprinkle corpse 
wax , bury . 
practice widespread , however , among people 
central asia . 
magi technician expert worship : impossible 
offer sacrifice without presence magus . 
performance 
ritual sacrifice , magus sing theogony magi possibly 
custodian tradition sacred poetry , know nothing 
relationship tradition various part avesta 
call upon interpret dream divine future . 
magi also 
know practice kill harmful , `` , '' animal 
snake ant . 
dress median style , wear pants , 
tunic , coat sleeve . 
wear characteristic head cover 
feel gr . 
tiara strip side could use cover nose 
mouth ritual avoid contaminate consecrated object 
breath boyce , 1982 . 
color cap , conformity tradition 
probably indo-european origin , accord georges , 
priesthood : white . 
likelihood , achaemenid period magi 
possession well-defined body doctrine , probable 
gradually adopt zoroastrianism ; likely clergy consist 
professional priest tie rigid orthodoxy naturally 
incline eclecticism syncretism . 
nonetheless , must 
jealous guardian patrimony tradition . 
virtue 
educator royal prince . 
wisest responsible 
teach prince `` magic , son '' thus 
`` cult god . '' 
magi excel virtue entrust 
education prince would learn , courageous , 
master . 
achaemenid period magi maintain position great 
influence , although certainly subordinate emperor . 
despite 
several dramatic event massacre suffer death 
- , accord herodotus call 
, persians kill large number magi avenge usurpation - 
magi nevertheless manage maintain influence court media , 
persia , various region empire station 
consequence persian civilian military administration . 
priesthood antiquity famous magi . 

renown follower zoroaster ; teacher 
greatest greek thinker pythagoras , democritus , plato ; wise man 
arrive , guide star , manger newborn savior 
bethlehem ; propagator cult sun india . 

also know chaldeans , priesthood babylon , know occultism ; 
perhaps reason term mago pejorative sense greek , 
like `` go , '' `` expert magic art '' cumont , 1938 . 
indeed , 
chaldean expert type magical art , especially astrology , 
reputation wisdom well knowledge . 
understand reason various sometimes discordant view , 
necessary distinguish magi iran proper so-called 
western magi , later . 
achaemenid period must 
least part zoroastrian , western magi 
iranian diaspora asia minor , syria , mesopotamia , armenia , come 
contact diverse religious tradition , must , sooner later 
vary degree , influence syncretic concept . 
greeks familiar kind magi , depend 
vary concern , would emphasize one aspect . 
classical 
historian geographer , include herodotus strabo , document 
custom , philosopher dwell doctrine : dualism , 
belief hereafter , cosmology cosmogony , theology 
eschatology . 
source interested doctrine magi 
even speak magus . 
repeat 
magi say median achaemenid period , adopt 
zoroastrianism . 
time embrace one 
place venerable name . 
zoroastrianism already undergo several profound transformation 
eastern community time already adapt 
element archaic religion refuse die . 
say quite 
often , attempt characterize precise role magi 
zoroastrian tradition , vendidad , `` 
daiva '' , part avesta , attribute . 
collection 
text various period primarily concern rule 
practice . 
nonetheless , hypothesis hardly plausible , since first 
chapter vendidad - list sixteen land create ahura mazda , 
supreme god zoroastrianism , contaminate attack ahriman ; 
, angra mainyu , supreme god ultimate source 
evil suffering - mention western iran , persia , media 
land mention text median . 
furthermore , 
note , 1964 author magi 
absence reference western iranian institution , include 
priesthood , would strange . 
magi means zoroastrian tradition 
corpus avesta transmit , second half 
first millennium bce . 
principal merit . 
attribute 
directly magi new formulation iranian dualism assume , know 
especially greek source , part , pahlavi literature 
ninth tenth century ce . 
accord formulation , two pole 
dualism longer , gathas , spenta mainyu `` beneficent 
spirit '' angra mainyu `` hostile spirit '' ahura mazda angra 
mainyu , 1964 . 
see ahura mazda angra mainyu . 
trans - 
formation immense consequence historical development zoro - 
likely determine contact magi 
mesopotamian religious world . 
new dualism - later know 
greeks aristotle , eudemus rhodes , theopompus , - 
see affirmation new current think within zoroastrianism , 
give name zurvanism . 
see zurvanism . 
thanks adherence zoroastrianism , magi play enormously 
important role transmission 's , well 
definition new form would assume historically . 

natural propensity eclecticism syncretism also help diffusion 
zoroastrian idea community iranian diaspora . 
greeks begin 
study doctrine take interest xanthus lydia , 
, aristotle , theopompus , , dinon , even write treatise 
persian religion , title fragment 
survive . 
hellenistic period , magi see secular school 
wisdom , writings magic , astrology , alchemy lend authority 
prestigious name , , , form 
abundant apocryphal literature . 
cumont , 1938 . 
later still , eschatology apocalyptic fertile meeting 
ground iranian judeo-christian religion , see famous 
_ oracle _ , work whose iranian root undeniable 
likely date beginning christian era , probably 
second century ce , 1968 . 
zoroastrian doctrine savior 
future basis story come magi 
bethlehem _ gospel matthew _ 2:1 -12 . 
see . 
period see magi play determine role 
religious history iran . 
concerned win back western magi de , 
1956 , eager consolidate zoroastrianism national religion 
iran , priest iranian sanctuary media persia able 
establish true state church , strongly hierarchical endowed 
orthodoxy base formation canon scripture . 
leading figure 
development state religion zoroastrian orthodoxy tosar 
, persecutor mani third century . 
: 
avestan term `` future benefactor '' ; , designate 
savior world , arrive future time redeem humankind . 
concept future savior one fundamental notion zoro - 
, together dualism ; appear early gathas . 
zoroaster , prophet religion , sao - 
, one perform work , end present 
state world , existence `` rehabilitate '' `` make splendid . '' 
see 
later zoroastrian doctrine develop notion true eschatological 
myth expand number one three . 
savior 
bear seed , preserve age 
lake identify present-day lake helmand , , iran , 
protect 99,999 , guardian spirit . 
greatest await 
, victorious `` embody truth '' , son 
`` conquer '' , third , make 
existence splendid ; appear 19 . 
upon arrival humankind 
longer subject old age , death , corruption , grant 
unlimited power . 
time dead resurrect , living 
immortal . 
brandish weapon kill 
powerful enemy world truth , world spirit , 
asha , look upon whole corporeal existence 
render imperishable . 
comrade engage great battle 
force evil , destroy . 
name clearly result theological speculation 
, 1974 , two brother , , `` make 
truth grow , '' , `` make reverence grow '' ; name 
three virgin yasht 13 impregnate seed 
bathe lake give birth , equally 
speculative . 
arrive beginning 
millennium , initiate new age new cycle existence ; 
appear third final millennium save mankind . 
doctrine future savior already take shape 
period sixth fourth century bce . 
, perhaps principal element 
formation messianic idea , certainly determine 
factor , one enjoy great success hellenistic period beyond 
confines iranian world . 
similar concept , future buddha , 
maitreya , likely indebted , christian messianism trace 
root source . 
