: david davidian 
subject : address turkish genocide apology # 451 
summary : ... upon check reference 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 77 
turkish historical revision residue < > , 
serdar , post following : 
source : `` adventure near east '' a. rawlinson , jonathan cape , 
30 bedford square , london , 1934 first publish 1923 287 page . 
memoirs british officer witness armenian genocide 2.5 
million muslim people 
bull ! 
p. 184 second paragraph 

`` receive definite information horror 
commit armenian soldiery kars plain , 
able judge want discipline 
treatment detach party , wire tiflis 
` interest humanity armenians 
leave independent command moslem population , , 
troops without discipline effective control , 
atrocity constantly commit , 
justice eventually hold morally responsible ' . '' 
page 184 copy rawlinson book , find follow facsimile . 
note word armenian even appear ! 
184 adventure near east 
disposal journey , foresee would become 
headquarters considerable time , therefore go 
trouble make habitable . 
peculiar 
little locomotive , originally build america russian 
government , adapt burn either wood oil ; one cover 
truck man 's quarter ; one similar , fit - 
self railway officer ; also truck carry wood , three 
car utmost small engine could pull . 

small outfit start , rumor kind reach 
departure indicate whole situation rapidly 
come head , evident turks become ~ 
restive face inexplicable delay 
allies reach definite decision regard 
future . 
travel little `` war-time '' railway indeed 
experience , necessary carry `` gauge , '' 
test rail frequently , many place , owe 
sinking embankment wash away 
ballast , rail require rectification able 
get train , even foot pace ; bridge also re - 
quire elaborate examination adventure train upon 
, eventually oblige carry large baulk tim - 
ber temporarily shore many bridge culvert 
whilst pass . 
circumstance may imagine prog - 
ress means rapid , frequently halt 
also replenish supply wood fuel , consider 
achieve wonder , evening second day , 
60 hour 70 mile , finally enter 
gorge mountain understand worst trouble 
lie . 
gorge road 
kars descend cross 
frontier ; railway , however , follow main aras river val - 
ley till frontier gorge enter , whilst road cut 
corner join rail frontier post , 
15 mile main valley . 
soon enter gorge , confront 
first serious fall rock -- 2,000 ton fall 
cliff face entirely obliterate railway track . 
, 
therefore , halt , , send engine back , prepare 
-- 
david davidian | `` armenia learn lesson 
center regional studies | anatolia forget 
p.o. box | punishment inflict . '' 

cambridge , ma | -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
