: `` nigel allen '' < > 
subject : alternative fuel vehicles 
: `` nigel allen '' < > 
organization : canada remote systems 
distribution : rec 
lines : 48 
press release u.s. department energy . 
energy secretary hail president 's plan alternative fuel 
vehicles 
: national desk , environment energy reporters 
contact : larry hart u.s. department energy , 
washington , april 21 -- secretary energy 
hazel r. o'leary today say president clinton 's executive order 
alternative fuel make federal government `` drive force 
behind effort increase availability alternative 
fuel vehicle fuel supplies . '' 
president clinton sign order today , call 
federal purchase alternative fuel vehicle number 
next three year least 50 percent higher call 
energy policy act 1992 . 
president clinton also announce texas land commissioner 
gary mauro head federal fleet conversion task force 
advise o'leary implementation executive order . 
`` delighted work gary mauro make 
happen , '' o'leary say . 
`` land commissioner , gary mauro 
help make texas national leader convert state fleet 
alternative fuel , tireless proponent natural 
gas vehicle speech across country . '' 
task force issue report within 90 day recommend 
plan schedule implementation . 
`` department energy government must lead 
example option alternative fuel go become 
practical , affordable choice fleet owner across country , '' 
o'leary say . 
`` increase use alternative 
fuel mean reduce pollution create job . 
believe 
energy efficiency , protect environment , healthy 
economy complimentary goal . '' 
o'leary say plan call department energy 
coordinate agency ' five-year purchase plan , help 
fund extra purchase conversion cost , work gsa 
encourage development fuel infrastructure need make 
fleet conversion practical . 
order , department energy also work 
state , local government industry coordinate vehicle 
purchase encourage manufacturer fuel supplier make 
alternative fuel vehicle alternative fuel widely 
available . 
-30 - 
-- 
canada remote systems - toronto , ontario 

