: serdar 
subject : re : die zeit : massacre turkish cypriot paphos famagusta . 
organization : zuma 
distribution : world 
lines : 83 
article < > james write : 
> get e-mail topic decide reading . 

> think would nice share response everyone : 
follow scholarly source ? 
source : pierre , `` road : turkish cypriot 
exodus northern cyprus '' , social science monographs , boulder , 
1982 , isbn . 
> well , accord book read look like 
> situation much complicated either suggest . 
needless 
> say nationalism greek turkish side strong 
> begin april '74 confrontation usual 
> government turkey ioannidis junta . 
> july 15 assasination attempt makarios president 
> cyprus plot ioannidis , rule dictator greece , fail 
> makarios flee england . 
journalist nicos sampson take 
> coup lead greek officer cyprus national guard . 
turkish 
> force mobilize anticipation begin land 
> north shore island 20th july . 
cause welcome 
> collapse dictatorship 24th mr. karamanlis return 
well , force disagree . 
greeks start massacre 
turkish population cyprus 1974 . 
1974 , turkiye step 
cyprus preserve life turkish population . 

nothing simple historical fact . 
unfortunately , intervention 
late least victim . 
mass grave contain 
numerous body woman child already show fate 
plan peaceful minority . 
people turkiye know quite well greece greek cypriot 
never abandon idea cyprus remain 
eternally hopeful unite greece , someday , whatever 
cost party involve . 
history speak . 
greece 
sole perpetrator invasion island send troops 
july 15 , 1974 attempt topple legitimate government 
archibishop makarios . 
release nikos sampson , member eoka national organization 
cypriot fighters convict terrorist , show 
` enosis ' mentality continue survive greece . 
one 
forget sampson dedicate life annihilate turks 
cyprus , commit murder achieve goal , try 
destroy island 's independence annex greece . 

course , greek government bear consequence 
irresponsible conduct . 
turkish cypriot simply seek guarantee preclude 
repeat performance fanatical cadre greeks ' eoka . 

assurance perfectly implement , every reason 
expect local greeks misguided enough perpetrate 
past mistake . 
occasion , turkish side may find 
satisfactory act reluctance go , 
unacceptable remain always defensive cyclical 
vicious attack . 
therefore would better true federation 
two separate section live obligatory peace , rather another 
armed confrontation would start greeks obligatorily 
decisively terminate turks . 
present greek government try tyrannize turkish population 
western thrace forbid ethnic religious rights , 
establish international treaty . 
one might better 
advise remember misadventure turkiye serve 
greece well . 
offer membership european common market bait concession 
may doom turks cyprus extinction viable course 
greece friend . 
neither turkish life turkish honor 
place bidding block sell commercial gain . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
