: marc gabriel 
subject : newsletter vol # 1 # 09 
lines : 344 

lyme disease electronic mail network 
newsletter 

volume 1 - number 09 - 
i. introduction 
ii . 
announcement 
iii . 
news wire 
iv . 
question 'n' answer 
v. op-ed section 
vi . 
jargon index 
vii . 
subscribe , contribute get back issue 
i. introduction 
issue newsletter , learn cdc 's announce concern 
`` resurgence infectious disease '' united states . 
thanks 
jonathan lord send upi release . 
cdc announce would 
feature new series article morbidity mortality weekly 
report infectious disease ld one . 
keep 
date series . 
addition , feature wall street journal article legal issue 
surround ld . 
also look lyme 's effect perspective 
urologist abstract entitle `` urinary dysfunction lyme disease . '' 
finally , terry morse ask intriguing question tick 's habitat . 
- marc . 
ii . 
announcements 
source : lyme disease update 
subject : call articles 
attention health care professionals : 
lyme disease update would like publish article lyme disease 
diagnosis , lyme treatment , effect lyme lyme patient ' physical 
mental health . 
ldu monthly circulation 6,000 . 
mailing list include lyme 
patient , physician , researcher , county health department , 100 
lyme support group nationwide . 
strive give reader up-to-date 
information lyme disease prevention , diagnosis , treatment , 
source support practical advice live lyme disease . 
articles ldu approximately 900 1200 word 
address lyme disease issue non-scientific language . 
submit 
article , mail : lyme disease update 
p.o. box 
evansville , 
fax : 
one year subscription lyme disease update $ 19 $ 24 outside 
us . 
mail subscription request address , call 
information . 
iii . 
news wire 
sender : jonathan lord < > 
subject : resurgence infectious disease concerns cdc 
date : thursday april 15 , 1993 
atlanta -- resurgence infectious disease blame newly 
emerge virus bacterium pose major challenge nation 's 
health care system , federal health official say thursday . 
centers disease control prevention , report latest 
finding investigation contaminate hamburger meat 
sicken hundred 4 state kill least four , say 
put renew emphasis battle infectious disease . 
part emphasis include new series title `` emerge 
infectious disease '' feature cdc 's morbidity & mortality 
weekly report , wide circulation health community . 
issue also top agenda two-day meeting scientific 
counselor update cdc 's draft plan deal grow 
threat infectious ailment . 
`` issue come responsibility 
deal , '' say dr. ruth , deputy director cdc 's 
national center infectious disease . 
case malaria u.s. 1992 year 
since 1960 , latin america experience cholera epidemic , 
first century , say . 
resistance disease-causing agent antibiotic also problem . 
`` see much antibiotic resistance past '' 
say . 
say even common ear infection frequently see 
child become resistant antibiotic treatment . 
`` despite prediction earlier century infectious disease 
would soon eliminate public health problem , infectious disease 
remain major cause death worldwide lead cause illness 
death united states , '' cdc say . 
cite emergence since 1970 `` myriad '' newly 
identify pathogen syndrome , escherichia coli o157 : h7 , 
deadly bacterial infection ; hepatitis c virus ; hiv , virus 
cause aids ; legionnaires disease ; lyme disease ; toxic shock syndrome . 
`` incidence many disease widely presume control , 
cholera , malaria tuberculosis , increase many area , '' 
cdc say . 
say effort control prevention 
undermine drug resistance . 

source : wall street journal 
reference : , 
headline : ruling raise liability issue 
tick cause lyme disease may find new way cause 
damage : legal liability . 
federal judge 's decision hold property owner liable 
enough protect worker lyme disease get much 
attention latest medical study disease , flu-like 
illness cause severe physical mental disability 
rare instance death . 
decision last week put property owner 
notice may protect 
also may protect litigation 
someone become infected property . 
decision u.s. district judge robert j. ward new york come 
week-long trial case involve four track worker 
long island railroad . 
judge ward find worker contract 
disease bite tick job . 
order 
new york state-owned commuter line pay worker 
$ 560,000 compensate pain suffering , addition medical 
expense lose wages . 
summer camp , school , company facility rural 
semirural area , homeowner rent vacationer among 
group need worry ruling , say stephen l. 
kass , attorney new york law firm berle , kass & case , write 
legal article three year ago warn property owner potential 
liability . 
even family invite friend backyard 
barbecue might potentially liable . 
lawsuit insect bite , rare , unheard-of . 
summer 
vacationer southampton , n.y. , last year sue owner home 
rent , claim tick property give rocky 
mountain spot fever . 
1988 , also long island , jury order 
outdoor restaurant pay $ 3 million patron 
sting bee , cause allergic reaction permanent 
. 
judge later throw award , cite evidence 
beehive near restaurant . 
lawyer say attention lyme disease throughout 
country -- prevalent new england , middle atlantic 
state , wisconsin , minnesota northwest -- may make 
particular insect bite particularly litigious one . 
illness already prove source controversy 
courtroom issue type medical care insurer 
cover medical malpractice claim doctor 
diagnose disease . 
lawyer say worker 's - compensation claim related lyme disease 
become common state recent year . 
payment 
worker 's - compensation case , however , limit medical cost 
lose earnings . 
case judge ward deal potentially much 
lucrative avenue damages , involve question 
negligence . 
unlike worker 's compensation process , law govern 
injury rail worker allow finding negligence , 
result , additional payment pain suffering . 
property 
owner lawyer say negligence claim make many 
situation people expose tick carry 
disease . 
ira m. maurer , partner new york law firm elkind , flynn & 
maurer , represent rail worker , say decision help 
establish `` duty sort property owner protect 
lyme disease . '' 
lawyer caution despite judge ward 's decision , win 
lawsuit damages cause lyme disease may prove difficult . 

one thing , victim demonstrate pin 
get tick bite . 
judge ward find plaintiff 
railroad case get lyme disease work property 
railroad , even though none man remember bite . 
worker , outdoorsmen likely expose elsewhere 
insect , say see tick high grass surround 
work site . 
spokeswoman railroad say proof 
four man bite job railroad 
consider appeal . 
railroad also dispute judge ward 's finding 
enough protect employee . 
spokeswoman say 
railroad provide track worker insect repellent special 
pants protect bug bite . 
debate scientific community lyme disease could open 
legal property owner , question whether 
victim actually disease rather illness . 
earlier week , journal american medical association 
report doctor overly diagnose patient lyme disease . 
damages award victim also might influence medical 
dispute degree harm lyme disease cause . 
health safety concern , group company 
already take special measure protect lyme disease . 
last 
year , headquarters franklin lakes , n.j. , becton , dickinson & 
co. begin use , pesticide make inc. boston 
design kill tick carry disease . 
medical - 
supply company 's headquarters include 120-acre park , company 
worry employee walk trail recreation might 
get infect . 
ruth lister , spokeswoman american camping association 
indianapolis , say many youth camp accredit 
organization also begin check child tick . 
carole 
katz , member board fire island pine property owner 
association , say group spend $ 30,000 year treat 
100-acre site coast new york 
pesticide . 

title : urinary dysfunction lyme disease . 
author : chancellor mb ; mcginnis de ; pj ; p ; hirsch ih , 
department urology , jefferson medical college , thomas jefferson 
university , philadelphia , pennsylvania . 
reference : j 1993 jan ; 149 1 : 26-30 
lyme disease , cause spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , 
associate variety neurological . 
describe 7 patient 
also lower urinary tract dysfunction . 
evaluation reveal 5 patient 
2 . 
external sphincter 
note electromyography patient . 
observe urinary tract 
may involve 2 respects course lyme disease : 1 void 
dysfunction may part 2 spirochete may 
directly invade urinary tract . 
1 patient bladder infection 
lyme spirochete document biopsy . 
neurological urological 
symptom patient slow resolve convalescence 
protracted . 
relapse active lyme disease residual neurological 
deficit common . 
urologist practice area endemic lyme 
disease need aware b. burgdorferi infection differential 
diagnosis neurogenic bladder dysfunction . 
conservative bladder 
management include clean intermittent catheterization guide 
evaluation recommend . 
iv . 
questions 'n' answers 
note : response question , please forward 
editor . 
sender : terry morse < > 
subject : question lyme vector compost piles 
visit sister long island , ny , caution avoid 
compost heap back yard , think become 
infected . 
friend mine oregon compost heap would like 
back claim documentation . 
tick hang 
compost heap ? 
thank . 
v. op-ed section 
section open subscriber would like express opinion . 
vi . 
jargon index 
bb - borrelia burgdorferi - scientific name ld bacterium . 
cdc - centers disease control - federal agency charge tracking 
disease program prevent . 
cn - central nervous system . 
elisa - enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay - common antibody test 
em - erythema - name `` bull 's eye '' rash appear 
~ 60 % patient early infection . 
ifa - indirect fluorescent antibody - common antibody test . 
ld - common abbreviation lyme disease . 
nih - national institutes health - federal agency conduct medical 
research issue grant research interest . 
pcr - polymerase chain reaction - new test detect dna sequence 
microbe question . 
currently test use 
detect ld , tb , aids . 
spirochete - ld bacterium . 
give name due spiral 
shape . 
western blot - precise antibody test . 
vii . 
subscribe , contribute get back issue 
subscription : 
anyone internet address may subscribe . 
send memo 
body , type : 
subscribe 
fax subscription also available . 
send single page fax 
information . 
deletion : 
send memo 
body , type : 
unsubscribe 
contribution : 
send contribution fax . 
encouraged submit question , news item , announcement , 
commentary . 
back issue : 
send memo 
body , type : 
get x vol # yy issue # 
example : get get vol # 1 , issue # 01 

- internet lyme disease information source 

editor-in-chief : marc c. gabriel < > 
fax : 
contribute editor : carl brenner < > 
john o'donnell < > 
advisors : , director 
william s. , president 
lyme disease network new jersey 
chief proofreader : ed mackey < > 

comment present attribution , necessarily 
represent editor . 

newsletter may reproduce post bulletin boards freely 
long modify abridged way . 

send bug report . 

