: white house 
subject : clinton : fact sheet russian statement 
organization : mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines : 167 
: 
white house 
office press secretary 

immediate release april 23 , 1993 
background information : 
advance u.s. relations 
russia new independent states 
april 23 , 1993 
vancouver summit , president clinton president yeltsin 
agree pursue number measure design implement 
economic strategic partnership u.s. russia . 
since , president clinton direct number step 
take move process forward . 
administration 
announce number step today order underscore 
deep commitment new closer partnership russia base 
government 's commitment reform . 
executive review cold war laws 
president clinton president yeltsin discuss 
desirability review update u.s. law regulation 
reflect end cold war . 
congress already act 
revise many law reflect fact communist soviet 
union replace democratic russia 
independent state . 
however , many law regulation remain 
contain language restriction fail reflect 
end cold war unnecessarily undermine relation 
russia new independent state . 
president today order executive review law 
regulation , appropriate consistent u.s. 
security national interest , provision 
revise remove . 
ask ambassador-at-large strobe 
talbott coordinate review expedite basis . 

president indicate welcome congressional 
effort help review proceed quickly possible . 
review weigh consideration pertain 
revision provision , initiation review may 
help remedy circumstance justify 
provision past . 
example , russians 
eager status change 
legislation , president yeltsin personally assure president 
clinton vancouver would look individual case 
involve continue restriction emigration russia . 

address issue , review help strengthen bond 
trust partnership u.s. russia , 
u.s. new independent state . 
review cocom 
also time consider expeditiously america 's ally 
future another cold war institution -- coordinate 
committee multilateral export controls cocom . 
united 
states begin thorough review reorient export 
control post-cold war world , russia longer 
view potential adversary , potential ally 
combat proliferation sensitive technology . 
step improve security relationship 
president also take step move ahead range 
effort discuss vancouver strengthen u.s. security 
improve security relationship russians 
state . 
accelerate deactivation nuclear weapons 
vancouver , two president discuss accelerate 
process deactivate nuclear strategic system schedule 
elimination start treaty . 
president clinton 
direct department defense complete process well 
advance seven year reduction period outline start 
i. addition , united states , together russia 
relevant state former soviet union , 
explore program help accelerate 
process . 
multilateral test ban 
two president agree vancouver negotiation 
multilateral nuclear test ban commence early date , 
two government would consult 
accordingly . 
united states look forward begin 
consultation russia , ally , state , 
specific issue relate negotiation . 
united states 
expect start consultative process within next two 
month . 

two president also begin dialogue issue nuclear 
target vancouver . 
united states russia move 
new relationship strategic partnership , need 
reexamine many assumption mean employ 
past safeguard u.s. security nuclear adversary . 

administration begin comprehensive review measure 
could enhance strategic stability , include recent 
proposal nuclear missile . 
measure create new security relationship 
response incident involve collision us 
russian submarine last month , secretary aspin ready 
discuss way avoid incident future russian 
defense minister grachev visit united states 
late may . 
secretary aspin also prepare move forward 
defense minister grachev may develop combined training 
program two military force prepare joint 
exercise peacekeeping , authorize un 
security council . 
united states look forward broaden 
training exercise include peacekeeping 
contributor , order improve , readiness , 
plan multilateral peacekeeping operation . 
us 
russia work together convene may ministerial 
meet un security council discuss proposal 
enhance un 's peacekeeping capability move 
consideration secretary-general 's agenda peace 
discussion implementation phase . 
u.s. also 
work russians focus specifically improvement 
financing management un operation . 
purpose 
initiative cooperate peacekeeping 
participation un csce sponsor action . 
multilateral bilateral partnership reform 
finally , administration continue move ahead range 
initiative aim strike partnership economic 
political reformer throughout russia state . 

administration continue work g-7 partner 
assemble package multilateral assistance secretary 
bentsen christopher recently negotiate tokyo . 

administration continue consultation congress 
effort u.s. take assist process 
reform russia state . 

administration believe step increase american 
security improve relationship u.s. 
russia , u.s. new independent 
state . 
-30 - 
