: david davidian 
subject : re : question armenians 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 55 
article < > erdem 
ask : 
ee , flaming . 
simple question . 
... simple answer ! 
ee far know armenians belong gregorian orthodox 
ee faith case nineteenth century ottoman empire . 

ee also know armenian community convert catholicism 
ee protestantism western european missionary period . 
vast majority armenians eastern anatolia gregorian armenian 
apostolic . 
, however , higher percentage armenians 
cilicia , closer mediterranean , adana , marash , aintab , etc. . 
ee another known fact almost half armenians live anatolia 
ee speak armenian , use turkish everyday life . 
true . 
forbid armenians speak armenian 
certain area cilician armenia , armenians speak armenian . 
fact , 
turks interact armenians also speak armenian ! 
sure , 
armenians , especially man , also know turkish order function larger 
society . 
ee question , give many separation armenian community , 
ee common denominator armenian people allow armenian 
ee nationalism emerge nineteenth century ? 
state , religion 
ee uniform unlike greeks many armenians could even speak 
ee armenian . 
would like know factor bring armenians 
ee ottoman empire together lead formation armenian 
ee consciousness . 
armenians turkey persecute armenian , regardless 
specific branch christianity profess . 
resultant armenian 
nationalism direct reaction persecution . 
even later 
stage wwi , genocide , many armenians convert 
islam also exterminate continue armenian moslems . 

practice continue well 1920s ataturk parallel policy 
clear pocket steadfast islamic fundamentalism . 
many 
convert armenians , ironically , order stay alive , staunch moslems . 
ee information appreciate . 
answer question ! 
common thread throughout inquiry 
word armenian ! 
ee regard , 
-- 
david davidian | `` armenia learn lesson 
center regional studies | anatolia forget 
p.o. box | punishment inflict . '' 

cambridge , ma | -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
