: william bacon 
subject : earth also pollute ... . 
organization : cellar bbs public access system 
lines : 72 
fury mother nature 
man 's contribution environmental `` pollution '' paltry compare 
nature . 
exceptional book trashing planet , former atomic energy 
commision chairman dr. dixie lee ray note base available datum , `` 
air pollute material produce man since beginning 
industrial revolution begin equal quantity toxic 
material , aerosol , particulate spew air three 
volcano : krakatoa indonesia 1883 , mount katmai alaska 1912 , 
hekla iceland 1947 . '' 
could add mount st. helens 
washington state 1980 pump 910,000 metric ton carbon 
dioxide alone . 
el chicon mexico 1982 send 100 million 
ton sulfur gas stratosphere , mount pinatubo 
philippines 1991 hurl upward 30 million ton material 
stratosphere . 
los ninos 
many environmentalist attribute 1988 drought u.s. global 
warm , researcher national center atmospheric research 
boulder colorado report freakish weather actually due 
natural phenomenon , interaction el nino el nina , two massive 
current tropical pacific . 
el nino huge strip warm water 
periodically appear coast south america disrupt world 's 
weather pattern . 
, alternate el nina , mass cold 
water come ocean depths along equator drift 
thousand mile . 
chicago tribune 's peter summarize phenomenon : `` cold water along 
equator clash warmer normal water southeast hawaii . 

result u.s. drought devastating flood swamp 
bangladesh ... . 
nina 's cooler water disrupt tropical weather pattern 
distort path jet stream across north america . 
jet 
stream shove weather system away interior 
u.s. result drought . '' 
termite terror 
sundry animal insect also contribute share environmental 
`` degradation . 
time april note `` netherlands ... manure 
pig pose major ecological threat , defile water supplies 
excessive nitrite acidify local soil . 
sheep permanently scar 
landscape spain portugal , india ... bovine cow 
ravenous wraith whose constant quest food drive ravage 
stand forrest . '' 
february 1983 issue science digest report `` international 
team researcher discover termite generate twice 
carbon dioxide fuel burning . '' 
accord study report 
science november 5 , 1982 , `` estimated gross amount carbon dioxide 
produce termite twice net global input fossil 
fuel combustion . '' 
addition , `` termite potentially important source 
atmospheric methane : could account large fraction global 
. '' 
pest bacterium enable 
digest carbon efficiently 90 pe convert carbon dioxide , 
methane , gas belch atmosphere . 
ant another natural source `` pollution . '' 
1987 , atmospheric 
chemist bell laboratories , zoologist cornell university , 
report ant subfamily make store huge quantity 
formic acid contribute acidity rain fall 
remote area find atmosphere gas around 
globe . 
abundant , instance , fog mist hang 
rain forest central africa . 
accord july 6 , 1987 insight 
magazine , `` ant release acid defend 
communicate upon die . 
since 30 percent world 
ant population belong subfamily , significant concern 
acid ant release , '' amount estimate `` 600,000 metric ton 
annually . '' 
equal combined formic acid contribution 
automobile , refuse combustion vegetation . '' 
clearly , man long way go match nature `` '' 
environment . 
robert w. lee . 
------ 
william bacon 
cellar bbs - 
