: larry 
subject : electronic journal asa - april 1993 
keyword : venus , venera , soviet , probe 
organization : digital equipment corporation 
lines : 663 
electronic journal 
astronomical society atlantic 
volume 4 , number 9 - april 1993 

table contents 

asa membership article submission information 
soviets venus , part 3 - larry 

asa membership information 
electronic journal astronomical society atlantic 
publish monthly astronomical society 
atlantic , incorporated . 
asa non-profit organization dedicate 
advancement amateur professional astronomy space 
exploration , well social educational need member . 
asa membership application open interest 
astronomy space exploration . 
member receive journal 
asa hardcopy send united states mail - duplicate 
electronic journal astronomical league 's reflector magazine . 
member may also purchase discount subscription astronomy 
sky & telescope magazine . 
information membership , may contact society 
follow address : 
astronomical society atlantic asa 
center high angular resolution astronomy chara 
georgia state university gsu 
atlanta , georgia 30303 
u.s.a. 

asa bb : , baud 
telephone society recording leave 
address receive latest society news . 
asa officer council - 
president - eric greene 
vice president - jeff elledge 
secretary - ingrid 
treasurer - mike burkhead 
director - becky long , tano , bob vickers 
council - bill , michele , barry , bill black , 
mike burkhead , jeff elledge , frank guyton , larry , 
ken , jim rouse , tano , john , 
wess stuckey , harry taylor , gary thompson , cindy weaver , 
bob vickers 
article submission 
article submission astronomy space exploration 
welcome . 
please send on-line article ascii format 
larry , editor , follow net address 
society address : 

- ... ! 

- 
- 
may also use address back issue request , 
letter editor , asa membership information . 
send article submission , please certain include 
either network regular mail address reach , 
telephone number , brief biographical sketch . 
back issue also available asa anonymous 
ftp site . 
directory : 
disclaimer 
submission welcome consideration . 
articles submit , 
unless otherwise state , become property astronomical 
society atlantic , incorporated . 
though article 
use profit , subject editing , abridgment , 
change . 
copying reprinting , part whole , 
encouraged , provide clear attribution make astronomical 
society atlantic , electronic journal , author . 
opinion express author ' 
necessarily asa . 
journal copyright c 1993 
astronomical society atlantic , incorporated . 
soviet venus 
part 3 
copyright c 1993 larry 
author give permission group individual wish 
distribute article , long proper credit give , 
author notify , article reproduce 
entirety . 
north pole ! 
june 2 7 , 1983 , two soviet union 's mighty proton 
rocket lift space center kazakhstan 
republic . 
aboard booster new breed venera probe 
planet venus . 
designated venera 15 16 , probe mean landing 
yet spherical craft surface radar map 
planet detail orbit . 
accomplish task , basic 
venera design modify numerous area . 
central bus core 
make one meter 39.37 inch longer carry two ton 
propellant require brake orbit , double fuel carry 
venera 9 10 orbiter eight year earlier . 
extra solar panel 
add give vehicle power handle large 
amount datum would create radar imaging . 

communication antenna also make one meter larger 
properly transmit information earth . 
atop bus , lander usually place , install 
1.4 6-meter 4.62 , 
polyus v radar antenna . 
radar system , possibly 
version nuclear-powered satellite use 
soviets earth ocean surveillance , would able map venus ' 
surface resolution one two kilometer 0.62 1.2 mile . 
soviet probe ' imaging parameter vast improvement 
united states pioneer venus orbiter , could reveal object 
smaller 75 kilometer 45 mile diameter . 

venera ' resolution comparable similar observation 
make 300-meter 1,000-foot arecibo radio telescope 
island puerto rico , orbiter would examine northern 
pole venus . 
region unobtainable either arecibo 
pioneer venus appear contain number potentially 
interesting geological feature worthy investigation . 
october 10 , 1983 , interplanetary journey 330 
million kilometer 198 million mile two mid-course correction , 
venera 15 fire brake rocket venus place 
polar orbit 1,000 65,000 kilometer 600 39,000 mile around 
planet , complete one revolution every twenty-four hour . 
venera 
16 follow suit four day later . 
twin probe thus become venus ' 
first spacecraft . 
radar operation begin october 16 venera 15 october 20 
venera 16 . 
sixteen minute every orbit north 
pole , probe would make radar sweep surface 150 kilometer 
ninety mile wide nine thousand kilometer 5,400 mile long . 
craft would head highest part orbit 
south pole recharge battery transmit datum back 
two large soviet antenna earth . 
strip information take 
eight hour process computer . 
end main mission 
july 1984 , venera map 115 million square kilometer 
46 million square mile , thirty percent entire planet . 
venera 15 16 reveal venus surface geology 
complex show pioneer venus late 1970 . 
numerous hill , 
mountain , ridge , valley , plain spread across landscape , 
many apparently form lava erupt volcano 
last one billion year . 
planetary term make 
surface rather young . 
hundred crater detect well , 
largest create meteorite planetoid 
would better term least fourteen kilometer 8.4 mile 
across , due venus ' dense atmosphere . 
disagreement u.s. soviet scientist 
origin certain surface feature . 
example , probe ' 
owner declare wide crater 
summit high maxwell montes , tallest 
mountain planet , result meteorite impact . 
american 
scientist , hand , feel crater proof maxwell 
huge volcano sit northern `` continent '' ishtar terra . 
event , u.s. decide wait make verdict 
venus arrival radar probe , schedule later 
decade . 
originally name venus orbiting imaging radar 
voir , initial design scale back craft - 
nate venus radar mapper . 
eventually machine would 
call magellan , portuguese navigator ferdinand magellan 
circa . 
vehicle would map entire planet even 
finer detail venera . 
time , however , soviet 
probe maintain distinction . 
radar imaging ability venera . 
bolt 
next polyus v radar antenna omega altimeter 
fourier spectrometer , latter measure world 's 
temperature . 
majority area cover register 
five hundred degree celsius 932 degree fahrenheit , 
location two hundred degree hotter , possibly indicate 
current volcanic activity . 
probe also find cloud 
pole five eight kilometer three 4.8 mile 
lower equator . 
contrast , polar air sixty 
kilometer thirty-six mile altitude five twenty degree 
warmer equatorial atmosphere similar height . 
main mapping mission end july 1984 , 
plan least one venera radar image surface 
southernly latitudes . 
unfortunately idea come 
pass , orbiter may possess enough 
gas perform operation . 
venera 15 16 cease transmission march 1985 , leave 
soviet institute electronics six 
hundred kilometer 360 mile radar datum tape sort 
atla twenty-seven map northern hemisphere venus . 
venus balloon 
year thick atmosphere venus tempting 
target scientist wish explore planet 's mantle 
air instrument . 
professor jacques 
french space agency centre national d'etudes cnes 
propose idea far back 1967 , joint 
balloon mission cancel 1982 . 
nevertheless , 
late year 1984 , dream would eventually come true . 
two proton rocket send skyward december 15 21 , 
soviet union provide western observer first clear , full 
view booster launch every soviet venus probe 
since 1975 . 
one many first complex mission . 
unmanned probe launch space december name 
vega 1 2 , contraction word venera - 
russian word halley . 
spacecraft 
one mission perform , also one 
celestial objective explore , namely comet halley . 
famous periodic traveler make latest return 
inner region solar system since last visit 1910 . 
since widely believe comet icy remain 
formation solar system five billion year ago , scientist 
around world give high priority explore one 
body actually come close earth . 
comet linger cold dark outer fringe solar 
system . 
, like halley , perturb various force fall 
towards sun , circle millennia spew ice 
debris million kilometer warmth solar 
encounter . 
soviet union , along european space agency esa 
japan 's institute space astronautical science isas , 
wish miss first opportunity human history make 
close examination halley . 
esa would use cylindrical 
giotto probe make dangerously close photographic flyby 
comet , japan 's first deep space craft - sakigake pioneer 
comet - would view halley much safer distance . 
scientist united states also desire study comet 
vantage space probe , one time envision vessel 
power solar sail ion engine . 
however , government budget 
cut nasa cancel american effort . 
u.s. would 
make primarily earth-based observation sharing 
datum nation , though instrument name dust counter 
mass analyzer , design chicago university professor 
john simpson , add soviet mission may 1984 . 
soviets ' answer halley vega . 
instead building 
entirely new craft mission , soviets decide modify 
venera bus design encounter comet perform 
advanced venus mission along way . 
vega 1 2 reach venus , 
bus would drop one use mass 
shroud planet swing towards comet halley , much 
u.s. probe mariner 10 use venus flyby mercury eleven year earlier . 
soviet craft would head halley , help pinpoint 
location comet 's erupt nucleus giotto probe dive 
605 kilometer 363 mile away march 1986 . 
plan , two vega arrive venus june 1985 . 
vega 
1 release payload first ninth day month , lander 
make two-day descent towards planet . 
craft touch 
upper atmosphere morning june 11 . 
sixty-one kilometer 
36.6 mile surface small container release 
lander , produce parachute 55 kilometer 33 mile 
altitude . 
thus first balloon probe ever explore venus 
successfully arrive . 
one kilometer opening parachute , helium gas 
pump plastic balloon , inflate 
diameter 3.54 meter 11.68 foot . 
dangle tether thirteen 
meter 42.9 foot instrument package , properly know 
aerostat . 
top part aerostat 
consist cone serve antenna tether attachment 
point balloon . 
beneath transmitter , electronics , 
instrument . 
connect bottom 
measure cloud particle . 
aerostat paint special 
white finish keep bay corroding mist sulfuric acid 
permeate planet 's atmosphere . 
vega 1 balloon drop night side venus 
north equator . 
scientist concern gas bag 
would burst heat daylight , place darken 
hemisphere give craft much time possible return datum . 
action necessitate lander come dark 
well , effectively remove camera system use previous mission . 
author wonder , though , could use floodlight similar 
one attach venera 9 10 1975 , soviet scientist 
think planet 's surface perpetual twilight 
due permanently thick cloud cover . 
first balloon transmit 46.5 hour right day 
hemisphere lithium battery fail , cover 11,600 
kilometer 6,960 mile . 
threat burst day heat 
materialize . 
vega 1 balloon station 
altitude drop ballast fifty kilometer 
thirty mile , consider active three 
main cloud layer report pioneer venus 1978 . 
indeed 
balloon push across planet speed 250 kilometer 
150 mile per hour . 
strong vertical wind bob craft 
two three hundred meter 660 990 foot 
journey . 
layer 's air temperature average forty degree celsius 
104 degree fahrenheit pressure mere 0.5 earth atmosphere . 
could find clear region surround cloud . 
early first balloon 's flight , vega 1 lander already 
head towards surface . 
lander equip 
soil drill analyzer similar one carry venera 13 
14 1982 . 
however , vega 1 would become unable report 
composition ground landing site rusalka planitia , 
mermaid plain north aphrodite terra . 
still ten fifteen 
minute away landing , timer malfunction cause drill 
accidentally begin program activity sixteen kilometer 9.6 
mile surface . 
neither way shut instrument 
touchdown reactivate landing . 
unfortunate 
general loss datum also fact 
venus cover smooth low-level lava plain never 
directly examine . 
nevertheless , surface temperature 
pressure calculate 468 degree celsius degree 
fahrenheit 95 earth atmosphere respectively lander 's 
56 minute ground transmission . 
large amount background 
radiation also record site . 
drill camera venera 11 
12 fail december 1978 , soviets focus datum 
return lander 's plunge atmosphere . 

malachite mass spectrometer detect sulfur , chlorine , 
possibly phosphorus . 
sulfur - possibly active 
volcano - give cloud yellowish color . 
sigma 3 gas chromatograph find every cubic meter air 
altitude 48 63 kilometer 28.8 37.8 mile 
contain one milligram 0.015 grain sulfuric acid . 
vega 1 datum overall structure cloud deck 
appear odds information pioneer venus . 
case make even stronger fact vega 2 's result 
nearly match twin . 
vega find two main cloud layer 
instead three report u.s. probe . 
layer 
three five kilometer 1.8 3 mile thick altitude 50 
58 kilometer 30 34.8 mile . 
cloud persist like 
thin fog clearing altitude 35 kilometer 21 mile , 
much lower pv reading . 
one possibility - 
cie may radical structural change air 
last seven year . 
lander balloon finally go silent , last 
function part vega 1 mission , flyby bus , sail 
708 journey around 
sun become first probe meet comet halley . 
march 
6 , 1986 , bus make pass 
dark icy visitor travel interplanetary space . 
soviets accomplish first mission two celestial 
body one space vessel . 
june 13 , vega 2 release payload 
two-day fall towards venus . 
like duplicate , vega 2 
balloon radio information back twenty antenna track 
earth 46.5 hour battery failure morning 
side planet . 

flight venus , second balloon enter rather still 
environment become less twenty hour mission . 
33 hour mission time air become even turbulent 
eight hour . 
balloon pass five - 
kilometer three-mile mountain `` continent '' aphrodite 
terra , powerful downdraft pull craft 2.5 kilometer 1.5 
mile towards surface . 
temperature sensor vega 2 balloon report air 
layer move consistently 6.5 degree celsius 
43.7 degree fahrenheit cooler area explore vega 1 
balloon . 
corroborate vega 2 lander pass 
balloon 's level . 
positive indication lightning 
make either balloon , second aerostat 's 
fail function . 
vega 2 lander touch northern edge aphrodite 
terra 's western arm fifteenth june , 1,500 kilometer 900 
mile southeast vega 1 . 
lander 's rest place smoother 
thought , indicate either ancient worn surface 
relatively young one cover fresh lava . 
soil drill 
work order report rock type know , 
rare earth present luna 's highland . 
rock rich 
aluminum silicon lack iron magnesium . 
high degree 
sulfur also present soil . 
air around vega 2 measure 
463 degree celsius degree fahrenheit 91 earth atmosphere , 
essentially typical day night venus . 
far vega 2 lander , carrier bus speed past venus 
distance 24,500 kilometer 14,700 mile follow twin 
comet halley , make closer flyby march 9 , 1986 8,030 
kilometer mile . 
probe help reveal comet 
dark mass fourteen kilometer 
8.4 mile across , rotate every 53 hour , give take three 
hour . 
since vega craft still function halley 
encounter , soviet scientist consider option send 
probe celestial object . 
one prime target near - 
earth planetoid 2101 adonis , vega 2 could pass distance 
six million kilometer 3.6 million mile . 
sadly , soviets 
back opportunity become first nation fly 
spacecraft past planetoid discover 
enough maneuver fuel probe reach adonis plan . 
vega 1 2 quietly shut early 1987 . 
future plan divert 
impressive vega mission give scientist numerous 
idea hope even ambitious expedition second 
world sun . 
one example vesta mission , plan 
early 1990s . 
collaboration call launch multiple 
probe single proton rocket either 1991 1992 . 
craft 
would first swing venus drop several lander balloon 
probe . 
aerostat would design survive planet 's 
corrosive atmosphere one month , large improvement 
vega balloon ' two day . 
mission would head 
investigate several planetoid comet , include possible 
landing vesta thus mission name , reflective main 
belt planetoid see earth . 
unfortunately venus exploration , plan begin change 
soviet union . 
1986 soviets decide reroute vesta 
mission red planet mars instead venus , keep comet 
planetoid aspect intact . 
time soviet space 
program interest focus mars . 
already construction 
entirely new probe design call phobos . 
two member 
class plan leave earth 1988 orbit mars next 
year . 
phobos 1 2 would place first instrument 
mars ' largest moon , phobos . 
prelude even advanced mars expedition , 
include balloon probe , rover , soil sample return craft , 
eventually human explorer early twenty-first century . 
environment venus hostile serious 
consideration human colonization near future . 
thing begin look bleak soviet venus mars 
exploration . 
phobos probe fail complete mission , 
one lose contact way red planet 1988 
go silent mars orbit one week plan moon 
landing march 1989 . 
1989 plan devise venus orbiter drop eight 
ten penetrator around planet 1998 . 
several year later 
mission launch date move year 2005 put 
indefinite hold . 
official soviet mission venus 
since put forth , sad commentary twenty-five year 
continuous robotic exploration planet . 
late 1980s drastic political economic change 
take soviet union . 
president mikhail gorbachev begin 
`` open '' nation benefit increase cooperation 
rest nation , particularly west . 

culture become less oppressive past , economy take 
rough ride also undergo effect `` free market '' . 
effect hit everywhere , include space program . 
mission level cut back . 
soviets begin make 
almost desperate attempt cooperate space-faring 
nation either keep remain program alive 
make money . 
early 1992 report soviets offer 
sale several venera storage price 
1.6 million dollar , incredibly low price planetary 
probe . 
nation take bargain . 
meanwhile united 
states gear new venus mission . 
magellan galileo 
u.s. reactivate long-dormant planetary exploration 
launch space shuttle atlantis may 4 , 1989 . 
aboard shuttle magellan spacecraft , combination 
spare part u.s. probe design make 
detailed complete venus history . 

magellan reach second world august 1990 , would 
able map almost entire planet resolution 108 
meter 360 foot , surpass ability venera 15 16 . 
interim another american probe launch space 
shuttle would make quick flyby venus way orbit 
giant planet jupiter 1995 . 
october 18 , 1989 , shuttle 
atlantis release second unmanned planetary probe space , 
name galileo famous italian astronomer discover 
probe 's primary target 's major moon 1610 . 
absence powerful enough booster send galileo 
direct flight jovian planet , probe send around 
venus earth several time build enough speed reach 
jupiter . 
result , venus become galileo 's first planetary 
goal february 1990 . 
probe radio back image 
planet 's swirl cloud indication lightning 
violent atmosphere . 
drawing board 
incredible success magellan last year , 
new plan lay journey venus . 
- 
u.s. talk space scientist former soviet 
union - commonwealth independent states since january 1 , 
1992 - cooperative effort launch new venera lander mission 
within next decade . 
japan , india , esa also 
consider venus mission next decade . 
february 1993 nasa come several new venus project 
part discovery program launch inexpensive probe 
throughout solar system . 
venus two mission select 
study : venus mission involve landing 
fourteen small probe one hemisphere measure wind , air 
temperature , pressure ; venus composition probe , design 
study venus ' atmosphere descend thick air 
aid parachute , much soviets since 1967 . 
final project decision make 1994 . 
human venus 
human ever able stand surface venus ? 
present temperature crush air pressure 
would threaten earth life protect something 
even tougher venera lander . 
plan look 
change environment venus something like 
earth 's . 
however , note undertaking 
require removal much thick carbon dioxide 
atmosphere , major reduction surface heat , ability 
speed planet 's rotation rate something bit faster 
every 243 earth day . 
project may take century 
millennium . 
meantime effort make better understand 
venus exist today . 
still yet fully know 
world seemingly similar earth many important way become 
instead deadly place . 
earth ever suffer fate ? 
perhaps venus hold answer . 
answer may best find 
international cooperation , include nation 
make first attempt lift cloudy veil venus . 
bibliography - 
barsukov , v. l. , senior editor , venus geology , geochemistry , 
geophysics : research result u.s.s.r. , university 
arizona press , tucson , 1992 
beatty , j. kelly , andrew chaikin , editors , new solar 
system , cambridge university press sky publishing corp. , 
cambridge , massachusetts , 1990 
burgess , eric , venus : errant twin , columbia university press , 
new york , 1985 
burrows , william e. , exploring space : voyages solar 
system beyond , random house , inc. , new york , 1990 
chaisson , eric , steve mcmillan , astronomy today , prentice - 
hall , inc. , englewood cliffs , new jersey , 1993 
gatland , kenneth , illustrated encyclopedia space technology , 
salamander books , new york , 1989 
greeley , ronald , planetary landscapes , allen unwin , inc. , 
winchester , massachusetts , 1987 
hart , douglas , encyclopedia soviet spacecraft , exeter 
book , new york , 1987 
hartmann , william k. , moons planet third edition , wadsworth 
publishing company , belmont , california , 1993 
harvey , brian , race space : soviet space programme , 
ellis limited , chichester , england , 1988 
, nigel , planet : portrait new world , viking 
penguin books ltd. , harmondsworth , middlesex , england , 1992 
johnson , nicholas l. , soviet space programs 1980-1985 , volume 
66 science technology series , american astronautical 
society , , inc. , san diego , california , 1987 
johnson , nicholas l. , soviet year space , 
teledyne brown engineering , colorado springs , colorado , 

lang , kenneth r. , charles a. whitney , wanderers space : 
exploration discovery solar system , cambridge 
university press , new york , 1991 
magellan : unveil venus , jpl , march 1989 
murray , bruce , michael c. malin , ronald greeley , earthlike 
planet : surface mercury , venus , earth , moon , mars , w. h. 
freeman company , san francisco , california , 1981 
murray , bruce , journey space : first three decade 
space exploration , w. w. norton company , new york , 1989 
, william , `` venus revealed '' , national geographic magazine , 
volume 183 , number 2 , washington , d.c. , february 1993 
nick , oran w. , far traveler : explore machine , nasa 
, washington , d.c. , 1985 
oberg , james edward , new earths : restructuring earth 
planet , meridian book , new american library , inc. , new 
york , 1983 
robertson , donald f. , `` venus - prime soviet objective '' parts 
, spaceflight , volume 34 , numbers , british interplanetary 
society bis , london , england , 1992 
smith , arthur , planetary exploration : thirty year unmanned 
space probe , patrick stephens , ltd. , wellingborough , - 
, england , 1988 
voyage universe : near planet , editors 
time-life books , inc. , alexandria , virginia , 1990 
wilson , andrew , jane 's solar system log , jane 's publishing , inc. , 
new york , 1987 
author - 
larry , editor , recipient asa 's 1990 
meritorious service award work editor since 
founding august 1989 . 
larry also teach course 
basic astronomy adult community 
education program massachusetts . 
larry author follow article : 
`` one dream man : robert h. goddard , rocket pioneer '' - august 1989 
`` stopping space light pollution '' - september 1989 
`` rocky soviet road mars '' - october 1989 
`` astronomy family '' - may 1991 
`` soviets venus , part 1 '' - february 1993 
`` soviets venus , part 2 '' - march 1993 
electronic journal astronomical society atlantic 
april 1993 - vol . 
4 , no. 9 
copyright c 1993 - asa 
