: t.c. zhao 
subject : full color image editor sgi workstations 
organization : university houston 
lines : 159 
distribution : world 
: 
happy announce first public release bit program , 
interactive , full color image viewer editor base sgi gl . 
besides typical task , crop , rotate , smooth , etc , 
bit offer unique feature available similar program , 
text vector support separation text image . 
following relevant section man page . 
----------------------------------------------------------------- 
pre-release may , 1993 bit 1l 
name 
bit - bitmap image sgi workstations 
description 
bit interactive full color image viewer editor base 
silicon graphics gl . 
full color program , bit handle image 
color index natural efficient manner . 
image viewer , bit allow list image display 
original type color index order 
many built-in style display . 
walk list use 
mouse keyboard , let bit walk 
slideshow . 
pan zoom feature , large image view 
full without limit window screen size . 
image editor , bit perform large number image editing 
process task accurately efficiently . 
keep information loss 
stage editing process absolute minimum perform 
subpixel sampling automatically conserve input image type 
whenever possible avoid unnecessary promotion quantization 
input image . 
also cut piece image paste 
another . 
addition , arbitrarily color size text simple 
geometric figure render top image annotation 
option make part bitmap output separately take 
advantage higher printer resolution e.g. postscript . 
bit also use graphical user interface many exist 
image processing program define external binding essence 
turn command line orient program bit 
access press button , best , process image 
read back display immediately . 
convolution use exter - 
nally define matrix arbitrary order perform dynamically 
give great flexibility process image . 
feature 
bit perform image manipulation interactively 
continuous progress report , processing complete , 
process image display . 
current feature include 
o rotate image arbitrary angle option anti-aliasing 
fill `` rotate '' region arbitrary color . 
o scale image arbitrary factor x - 
option subpixel sampling . 
o render text arbitrary color , size orientation top 
image option render directly raster saving 
text raster separately , postscript file , 
take advantage higher printer resolution . 
besides normal text 
string , many special symbol input conveniently 
tex 1 , e.g. , $ \ alpha $ \ small $ \ beta $ produce greek alphabet alpha 
follow slightly smaller greek alphabet beta . 
o present graphically histogram image . 
o perform arbitrary 1-to-1 pixel transformation . 
transformation 
function specify interactively arbitrary 
form . 
, transformation apply rgb channel 
separately simultaneously entire image portion 
. 
many difficult task , thresholding , accomplish 
rather easily 1-to-1 transformation combination - 
lability graphical histogram image . 
o places simple geometric figure sgf , e.g. , arrow , circle , trian - 
gle etc. , arbitrary color , size orientation image 
arbitrary location address either absolute pixel 
user definable coordinate system unit , option render 
directly raster save sgf raster separately e.g , 
postscript file . 
sgf scale x - 
independently simultaneously get ellipse 
circle . 
o perform edge detection . 
combination image histogram 1 - 
to-1 transformation , accurate result obtain . 
o perform histogram equalization . 
o perform convolution externally define square matrix 
arbitrary order . 
o crop rectangular portion image . 
o cut paste across image . 
o magnify portion image amount . 
o display list image sequence user pause 
interval image . 
slideshow 
o measure rgb intensity pixel location pixel 
along arbitrary line result present rgb intensity 
intensity vs. distance plot . 
o perform image type conversion . 
o convert image format . 
o smoothe image special convolution . 
o filter image external program read filter image 
back display . 
o modify individual pixel 's rgb value . 
o perform fft entire image portion display 
result power spectrum . 
o spray brush paint full color unavailable pre-release . 
support format 
o iris rgb , native sgi iris 
o jpeg format 
o gif 
o pnm portable map , include ppm , pgm pbm . 
o x window bitmap 
o tiff 
o postscript write 
hardware requirement : 

sgi workstation support , include indigo . 
get : 

anonymous ftp . 

xxx version number . 
current version 0.73 
read installation instruction unpack 
acknowledgement : 

jpeg support base independent jpeg group 's library version 4 . 
form library , develop mark overmars , use gui . 
jpeg form library include release . 

bit program ever need view annotate 
image ; built-in editing feature satisfy 
editing need . 
addition , external filter dynamical 
kernel utilize program already . 
try 
like . 
always , report welcome . 
