: barry shell 
subject : great canadian scientist 
organization : css , simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines : 155 
two year ago post following : 
plan write new book call `` great canadian scientist . '' 
please forward nomination : 
rule person must canadian citizen . 

bear canada even live canada , must 
, dead canadian citizenship great 
canadian scientist . 
70 people nominate already list 
end post . 
quite sure constitute greatness , may 
gray area . 
idea criterion greatness , would 
pleased hear . 
event , please nominate people even 
sure great . 
would like big list possible . 
please give name email address , phone number mail address , 
contact person . 
know , 
give last known whereabouts . 
also please give reason 
think person consider great canadian scientist . 
list , choose six interesting one 
in-depth biography individual style tracy 
kidder 's `` soul new machine '' dramatic technique . 
rest great canadian scientist appear 
one paragraph biography . 
idea project , interested hear 
. 
far , receive 68 nomination follow : 
first name last name nominator famous 
---------- --------- --------- ---------- 
sid altman , john catalytic rna nobel chem 89 
frederick banting insulin nobel u23 medicine 
davidson black stanley , robert discovered peking man 
james r. bolton warden , joseph chemistry ? 
raoul bott smith , steven math : algebraic topology . 
willard boyle , craig co inventor ccd 
gerard bull stanley , robert ballistics gunnery 
dennis chitty , carlos first animal ecologist 
brian c. conway tellefsen , karen electrochemistry 
stephen cook , alberto np-completeness , complexity 
? 
copp kuch , gerald biochem aspect physiol 
coxeter calkin , neil j. regular polytope math 
p. n. daykin palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
h. e. duckworth anonymous mass spectroscopy , admin 
jack edmonds , jack math , operations research 
reginald fessenden johnsen , hans wire insulation , light bulb 
ursula franklin , william physics . 
material 
j. a. gray gray , tom nuclear physics , gray 
e. w. guptill , craig slotted array radar 
donald hebb lyons , michael learning hebbian 
gerhard herzberg optical nobel 71 
james hillier electron microscope 
crawford s. holling , carlos ecology , predator prey 
david hubel lyons , michael visual cortex nobel med ? 
kenneth iverson dare , gary invent apl 
j. d. jackson , matt elementary particle theory 
andre joyal , prakash category theory , logic 
martin kamen carbon-14 . 
irving kaplansky knighten , bob algebra , functional analysis 
george s. kell kell , dave hot water freezing 
t. e. kellogg palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
geraldine siegman , anthony chemistry ? 
administration 
brian kernaghan brader , mark c programming language 
michael l. klein marchi , massimo theoretical chemistry 
charles j. krebs , carlos ecology , krebs effect 
k. j. laidler tellefsen , karen chemical kinetics 
g. c. laurence palmer , bill physics ???? 
raymond lemieux smith , earl first synthesize glucose 
martin levine meunier , robert computer vision 
edward s. lowry computer programming 
pere marie-victorin meunier , robert jardin botanique de montreal 
colin macleod turner , steven nobel ? 
dna discovery ? 
marshall mcluhan , stewart social sci , communication 
ben morrison willson , david aurora borealis 
lawrence morley strome , murray plate sense 
farley mowat abbott , john northern animal rights ? 
kevin ogilvie kendrick , kelly genetics , cure herpes ? 
sir william osler lyons , michael medicine 
peebles vishniac , ethan important cosmologist 
wilder penfield perri , marie anatomical basis memory 
john polanyi 
denis meunier , robert computer vision 
anatol rapoport lloyd-jones , david conflict theory , game theory 
howard rapson sutherland , russell pulp chemistry 
hans selye goel , anil k. psychology stress . 
william stephenson wilkins , darin ww2 enigma code , wire photo 
boris siegman , anthony raman spectroscopy 
david suzuki meister , darren science communication 
henry taube parker , wiley physical chemistry 
richard taylor manuel , john verified quark model 
david thompson eisler , michael mapped western canada 
endel tulving green , christopher psychology memory 
bill tutte royle , gordon matroid theory math 
uchida palmer , bill 's syndrome 
j. tuzo wilson collier , john continental drift theory 
r. h. wright palmer , bill chem , mosquito repellant 
j.l. allen yen leone , pasquale vl baseline interferometry 
walter zinn reactor . 

list grow nicely . 
amazing see much discover 
canadians . 
actually many bear canada , 
become americans graduate school . 
please note : lot people nominate alexander graham bell 
feel really summer home canada . 

know debatable , please nominate . 
anyone fill question mark list , please drop 
line . 

two year ago . 
since , receive grant science 
culture canada , division supply services canada research 
book . 
since old post book evolve educational book 
kid age 9 - 14 though may change 
40 two-page spread large graphic middle 
box around following subject : vital statistics photo 
scientist , personal statement scientist , narrative 
moment life scientist , `` 12 '' , 
want , experiment . 

appendix 100 - 200 scientist one paragraph 
biography quite make double spread . 
whole thing 
publish cd-rom video sound clip add 
richness . 
look cd-rom publisher well . 
text part may 
also available electronic highway develop 
canada well . 
still look publisher though penguin canada come close 
. 
hope find one soon . 
would like ask nomination , especially 
pure science physics , chemistry biology . 
also criticism 
list welcome . 
also woman french-canadian scientist need . 
hope post get nominate great canadian 
scientist , discuss `` great '' `` canadian '' 
`` scientist '' . 
please respond : 


barry shell 
quebec st. vancouver , b.c. canada 
thanks respond already . 
