: `` nigel allen '' < > 
subject : new method diagnosing alzheimer 's disease discover 
: `` nigel allen '' < > 
organization : canada remote systems 
distribution : sci 
lines : 113 
press release huntington medical research institutes . 
new method diagnosing alzheimer 's disease discover 
huntington medical research institutes : result reported 
: national desk , health writer 
contact : john lockhart belinda gerber , , 
, huntington medical research 
institutes . 
los angeles , april 28 -- new method diagnose 
measure chemical imbalance brain 
lead alzheimer 's disease dementia 
discover researcher huntington medical research 
institutes pasadena , calif. . 
result research 
report may issue scientific journal , 
radiology . 
use advanced form magnetic resonance imaging mri 
call magnetic resonance spectroscopy mr , research team lead 
brian d. ross , m.d. , d. , conduct study 21 elderly 
patient believe suffer form 
dementia . 
exam use standard mri equipment fit special 
software develop call clinical proton mrs. clinical 
proton mrs easily apply , give doctor confirmatory diagnosis 
less 30 minute . 
automate version clinical proton 
mrs call proton brain examination probe reduce examination 
time yet , provide confirmatory diagnosis less 10 
minute . 
comparison , current `` standard care '' testing 
alzheimer 's disease call lengthy memory function 
neuropsychological test , upset 
patient , definitive confirm autopsy . 
addition alzheimer 's disease , new clinical proton mrs 
exam may application diagnose dementia , include 
aids-related dementia , parkinson 's disease huntington 's 
disease . 
`` develop simple test administer quickly 
relatively inexpensively use exist mri equipment fit 
either mrs probe software , '' say dr. ross , add , 
`` help physician diagnose alzheimer 's earlier 
intervene therapeutics progression disease 
cause damage delicate inner workings brain . '' 
dr. ross team measure family chemical 
brain know inositol , myo-inositol mi act marker 
study . 
comparison healthy patient , diagnose 
alzheimer 's show 22 percent increase mi , 
level another chemical call naa 
significantly lower , indicate loss neuron 
believe associate progression disease . 
current drug therapy alzheimer 's disease widely 
consider inadequate . 
attributable , dr. ross 
believe , theory alzheimer 's cause 
interruption transmission chemical acetylcholine 
nerve cell . 
belief adhere last 15 
year , consequently , drug treat alzheimer 's base 
change receptor acetylcholine . 
`` physicians real need test differentiate 
alzheimer 's dementia , provide patient 
family firm diagnosis monitor future treatment 
protocol treatment disease . 
reason , 
consider test major advancement medicine , '' say bruce 
miller , m.d. , note neurologist , mrs researcher 
co-author study . 
member research team include rex a. moats , 
ph.d. , truda , b.s. , thomas ernst , ph.d. , suzanne woolley , 
r.n. . 
probe software fit approximately 1,200 
general electric mri unit currently use united states , 
configure manufacturer ' mri unit soon . 
interview dr. ross , advance copy radiology 
may issue , information , please contact john lockhart 
belinda gerber . 
q & alzheimer 's disease : 
alzheimer 's disease cause ? 
alzheimer 's disease ad incurable degenerative disease 
brain first describe 1906 german neuropathologist 
alois alzheimer . 
disease progress , lead loss 
memory mental functioning , follow change personality , 
loss control bodily function , , eventually , death . 
many people affect ? 
alzheimer 's disease affect estimate 4 million adult 
united states fourth lead cause death , take 
approximately 100,000 life year . 
alzheimer 's 
debilitate victim , equally devastating , 
emotionally financially , patient ' family . 
ad 
common cause dementia adult . 
symptom worsen every 
year , death usually occur within 10 year initial onset . 
sign symptom ? 
although cause ad know , two risk factor 
identify : advanced age genetic predisposition . 
risk 
develop ad less one percent age 50 
yar old , increase steeply successive decade life 
reach 30 percent age 90 . 
patient familial 
ad , immediate family relative 50 percent chance 
develop ad . 
one first symptom severe `` forgetfulness '' 
cause short-term memory loss . 
dr. herman weinreb school 
medicine new york university say `` whether forgetfulness 
serious symptom largely matter degree '' 
suggest follow criterion : 
-- forget name someone see infrequently 
normal . 
-- forget name loved one serious . 
-- forget leave key normal . 
-- forget get home serious . 
doctor suggest people severe symptom 
evaluate order rule alzheimer 's disease form 
dementia . 
-30 - 
-- 
canada remote systems - toronto , ontario 

