: serdar 
subject : sickening think armenians capable ... 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 329 
article < > paul halsall write : 
> curious serdar spend time attack greeks 
> armenians . 
happen historical opponent turkey . 

, armenian government get away genocide 
2.5 million turkish man , woman child enjoy 
fruit genocide . 
` ' . 

blind ? 
> problem , everybody - arab , greek , bulgar , serb , russian , tartar , 
> circassian , persian , kurd - , opponent . 

kurds ` r ' ; armenians ` r ' . 
> ally ? 
historic circumstance seem take certain 
> toll serdar : perhaps post 
> rather ? 
excuse ? 
`` close road mountain pass might serve 
way escape tartars proceed work 
extermination . 
troops surround village village . 
little resistance offer . 
artillery knock hut 
heap stone dust village become untenable 
inhabitant flee field , bullet bayonet 
complete work . 
tartars escape course . 

find refuge mountain succeed cross border 
turkey . 
rest kill . 
whole 
length borderland russian armenia 
akhalkalaki hot plain ararat cold mountain 
plateau north dot mute mournful ruin 
tartar village . 
quiet , village , except 
howl wolf jackal visit paw 
scatter bone dead . '' 

`` man like '' 
p. 202 . 
genocide deliberate organized massacre people 
attempt exterminate race . 
worst crime history . 
happen turks eastern anatolia armenian 
dictatorship . 
2.5 million turks kurds kill worst 
way imaginable . 
sickening think human race capable 
action , deny fact armenian 
genocide 2.5 million muslims happen . 
people turkiye deeply sympathize whose relative 
kill turkish genocide . 
understand anger 
still deny turkish genocide indeed take place , 
despite fact genocide 2.5 million turks 
well document past six decade . 
reverse 
event past , must strive keep 
memory tragedy alive side atlantic , 
help prevent recurrence extermination people 
religion race . 
source : bristol papers , general correspondence : container # 32 - bristol 
bradley letter september 14 , 1920 . 
`` absolute first-hand information armenians 
caucasus attack tartar turkish village utterly 
defenseless bombard village artillery murder 
inhabitant , pillage village often burn village . '' 
> let get something straight . 
? 
> 1 . 
armenians angel , subject turkish genocide . 
germans subject jewish genocide ? 
real ? 
tell ` halsall ' , high `` '' forgery 
fabrication write ? 
non-existent list 
scholar . 
mine : first world war ensue 
year - , armenian dictatorship premeditated 
systematic genocide , try complete centuries-old policy 
annihilation turks kurds savagely murder 
2.5 million muslims deport rest 1,000 year 
homeland . 
attempt genocide justly regard first instance 
genocide 20th century act upon entire people . 
event incontrovertibly prove historian , government 
international political leader , u.s. ambassador mark 
bristol , william langer , ambassador layard , james barton , stanford 
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , papazian , nalbandian , 
, jorge blanco villalta , general , general 
, general , general , , 
kazimir , , , general hamelin , rawlinson , 
aharonian , dr. stephan , , general , arfa , 
dr. hamlin , boghos nubar , sarkis , , rachel 
bortnick , halide edip , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul many 
. 
j. c. hurewitz , professor government emeritus , former director 
middle east institute , columbia university . 
bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor near eastern history , 
princeton university . 
halil , university professor ottoman history & member 
american academy arts & sciences , university chicago . 
peter golden , professor history , rutgers university , newark . 
stanford shaw , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
thomas naff , professor history & director , middle east research 
institute , university pennsylvania . 
ronald jennings , associate professor history & asian studies , 
university illinois . 
howard reed , professor history , university connecticut . 
, distinguished university professor political 
science , city university graduate school , new york . 
john woods , associate professor middle eastern history , 
university chicago . 
john masson smith , jr. , professor history , university 
california berkeley . 
alan fisher , professor history , michigan state university . 
avigdor levy , professor history , brandeis university . 
andreas g. e. , professor history , university california 
los angeles . 
kathleen burrill , associate professor turkish study , columbia university . 
roderic davison , professor history , george washington university . 
walter denny , professor history , university massachusetts . 
caesar farah , professor history , university minnesota . 
tom goodrich , professor history , indiana university pennsylvania . 
tibor , professor emeritus turkish study , columbia university . 
justin mccarthy , professor history , university louisville . 
jon , professor history , portland state university oregon . 
robert olson , professor history , university kentucky . 
madeline , professor history , university maryland . 
james , professor turkish study , university michigan . 
... . 
. 
list go ... 
wait , . 
mark alan epstein , ` ottoman jewish communities role 
fifteenth sixteenth centuries , ' klaus schwarz , 
freiburg 1980 . 
page 19 : 
fifteenth century , ottomans struggle 
reestablish balkans , considerable turmoil 
among jewish community central western europe . 
even 
difficulty darker century immediately precede 
fourteenth minimize , easy understand attraction 
ottoman life , particularly compare life europe , hold 
jews . 
way tell many jews leave christendom 
realm rise muslim ottomans , account persecution 
expulsion christian country record jews 
flee ottoman territory . 
regularity report suggest 
ottomans consider reasonably tolerant protector 
regular trickle jewish family move southward 
eastward western central europe . 
... evident 
effect plague , late crusade , general intolerance 
persecution jews christian europe result redirection 
whole focus jewish life , two century , 
orient toward muslim east . 

page 21 : 
second quarter fifteenth century foremost official 
edirne jewish community rabbi yitzhak sarfati ashkenazi 
chief rabbi city . 
important rabbi city 
author important letter tell something situation 
edirne jewry fifteenth century . 
sarfati 
christian europe supposedly write letter behest two 
recent arrival , , upon see prosperity freedom 
ottoman jews , prevail upon write european 
apprise situation urge migrate . 
remarkable letter advise recipient pleasant 
condition ottoman domain , describe well ease 
travel palestine holy place , attraction 
would make pilgrimage choose bury . 

page 41 : 
... impression gain hebrew source jews 
firmly aware community interest exist 
ottomans , especially comparison relation christian 
europe . 
confirmation commonality interest muslims jews 
also indicate fact european christian perceive jews 
ally islam well aware cooperation . 
certainly activity important jewish financier politician 
represent ottoman government abroad pass unnoticed . 
european 
source basis much knowledge career . 
addition 
appear christian pirate plunder '' turks jews , '' 
swear enemy , europeans consider jews agent 
regularly report ottomans . 
well-known example overt jewish support ottomans 
struggle european power . 
two best know instance 
jewish support campaigning ottomans frequently cite 
instance jewish contribution conquest buda , 
early sixteenth century , rhodes . 
also report sympathy 
ottomans siege chios . 
unpublished ottoman 
document show dramatically mutual interest exist 
greek town ... 
page 43 : 
clear throughout sixteenth century generally 
accept fact interest jews muslims coincide frequently , 
party involve , jews , muslims , christian , aware 
situation . 

page 46 : 
... seem relation greeks jews 
particularly cordial . 
two group little common , common 
interest , perceive common philosophical religious tradition 
could serve basis cooperation , rather enmity . 

identifiable bond good exist 
religious community fifteenth sixteenth century , 
muslims jews , neither much common 
orthodox . 

page 46 : 
general impression relation ottoman context 
fifteenth sixteenth century one community 
interest . 
earliest time ottomans seem welcome 
jews territory find community already 
exist place conquer cooperative element . 
jewish 
response tolerance steady flow jews christian 
country ottoman domain . 

page 151 : 
period 1453 indication 
relationship well course amity would 
characterize year afterward , liberality ottomans , 
contrast intolerance byzantines , protection 
security ottomans offer , comparison condition 
elsewhere , leave little even ottomans 
jews recognize mutual interest ... 
page 161 : 
impossible say fundamental jews success 
ottomans rebuild istanbul ottoman mercantile success 
sixteenth century . 
play important role 
. 
also unclear whether important enough 
say ottomans would experience great success 
without jews group could find serve 
ottomans well jews . 
, however , unmistakably clear 
parallel world history remarkable 
partnership jews non-jewish society live . 
must conclude ottomans could probably achieve 
success without group perform certain task well 
jews . 
certainly jews fifteenth sixteenth century 
ottoman empire remarkable salubrious home . 

version rabbi sarfati 's letter give : 
page 32 : 
cry sob reach . 
tell trouble 
persecution suffer german land ... hear 
lamentation brethren ... barbarous cruel nation ruthlessly 
oppress faithful child choose people ... priest 
prelate rome rise . 
wish root memory jacob 
erase name israel . 
always devise new persecution . 

wish bring stake ... listen brethren , counsel 
give . 
bear germany study torah german 
rabbi . 
drive native country come turkish land , 
bless god fill good thing . 
find rest 
happiness ; turkey also become land peace ... 
live germany know even tenth god bless 
land , would consider difficulty ; would set 
come ... land turks nothing complain 
. 
possess great fortune ; much gold silver hand . 

oppress heavy tax , commerce free unhindered . 
rich fruit earth . 
everything cheap , every one 
life peace freedom . 
jew compel wear yellow 
hat badge shame , case germany , even wealth 
great fortune curse jew therewith arouse jealousy 
among christian devise kind slander 
rob gold . 
arise brethren , gird loin , collect 
force , come . 
free enemy , 
find rest ... 13 
13 israel zinberg , history jewish literature . 
. 
jewish 
center culture ottoman empire hebrew union college press , 
publishers , new york , 1974 . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
