: david davidian 
subject : republic turkey sold 400 tone armenian bones 1924 . 
keyword : april 24 , 1993 , 78th anniversary turkish genocide armenians 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 68 
yarn cargo human bone 1 
copyright , 1924 , new york times company 
special cable new york times 
paris , dec 22 , -- marseilles excite weird story arrival 
port ship fly british flag name zan carry 
mysterious cargo 400 ton human bone consign manufacturer . 
bone say load sea marmora 
remains victim massacre asia minor . 
view 
rumor circulate expect inquiry instigate . 
- - - reference - - - 
1 _ new york times _ , december 23 , 1924 , page 3 , column 2 bottom 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 
78th commemorative anniversary turkish genocide armenians , 
remember whose crime armenian shadow 
emerge turkish state . 
name demand justice . 
april 1915 , turkish government begin systematically execute 
eastern anatolian homeland armenians 
genocidal extermination . 
genocide insure turks exclusively 
rule geographic area today call republic turkey . 

result : 1.5 million murder , 30 billion dollar armenian property steal 
plunder . 
genocide end nearly 3,000 year armenian civilization 
land . 
today , turkish government continue scrape clean 
vestige prior armenian existence land . 
today 's turkish 
governmental policy re-write history era , manufacture 
distortion generate excuse genocide armenian people . 

face refutation ad nauseam , turkish historical society crony 
shamelessly continue deny genocide occur . 
policy 
merely demonstrate modern era , genocide effective state 
policy remain . 
crime unpunished 
crime encourage . 
adolf hitler take cue less 25 year 
successful genocide armenians . 
turkey claim systematic deportation armenians , yet ... 
armenians remove every city , town , village whole 
turkey ! 
armenians resist deportation massacre refer 
`` rebel '' . 
turkey claim genocide armenians , yet ... turkish population 
figure today show zero armenians eastern turkey , armenian homeland . 
turkey claim armenians always small minority , yet ... turkey claim 
armenians `` threat '' . 
final insult victim , republic turkey sell bone 
approximately 100,000 murder armenians profit europe . 
today , turkish government enjoy fruit genocide . 

success genocide hang head turkey 's kurdish 
population . 
armenians demand recognition , reparation , return armenian land 
property lose result genocide . 
armenians demand justice adalet 
-- 
david davidian | `` armenia learn lesson 
center regional studies | anatolia forget 
p.o. box | punishment inflict . '' 

cambridge , ma | -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
