: robin hanson 
subject : estimate wiretap 
: 
organization : information sciences division 
lines : 166 
would wiretap chip cost-effective ? 
robin hanson 
draft , april 21 , 1993 
summary : compare average monthly phone bill sixty dollar , 
wiretap worth two cent month police . 

propose wiretap chip must raise phone cost less one part 
three thousand cost-effective . 
background 
, phone happen allow existence `` wiretap '' , 
detector could pick conversation phone line . 

time , law enforcement agency come rely capability 
aid criminal investigation . 
however , powerful new encryption 
technology threaten status quo , make possible truly 
private communication . 
small chip phone could soon make 
literally impossible overhear conversation without physical 
microphone either end . 
order preserve ability law enforcement agency tap 
phone conversation , u.s. government announce april 16 , 1993 
develop begin manufacture special `` wiretap '' chip 
place future phone , instead total privacy chip 
private development . 
day , at&t 
announce would use chip `` secure telephone 
product '' . 
chip would create government supervision , would 
give fix encryption key . 
periodically 
conversation , chip would broadcast identifier 
info special `` law enforcement block '' . 
law enforcement officer 
court order could obtain key correspond 
special trust agency , could thereby listen 
future previously record conversation phone . 
date , concern voice plan 
security . 
government disclose encryption algorithm , 
many suspect government limit access way 
claim . 
track record previous government 
inspire confidence point 1 . 
however , paper neglect concern , ask instead 
whether new wiretap chip cost-effective tool police 
investigation . 
, cheaper way society 
investigate crime : force phone communication support wiretap , 
give police agency money investigate crime way ? 
put another way , would police agency willing pay 
wiretap , pay share full social cost 
force phone support wiretap ? 
start answer question , might compare current 
benefit wiretap provide law enforcement agency project 
cost implement new wiretap chip plan . 
since current 
benefit easier estimate , begin . 
wiretap benefit 
1990 latest year wiretap statistics available 
2 . 
year , 872 wiretap installation request , 
request deny . 
figure include wiretap obtain 
consent party conversation . 
2057 arrest 
result wiretap start year , 1486 arrest come 
wiretap previous year , 55 % arrest lead conviction . 
76 % wiretap phone vs pager , email , etc. , 60 % 
regard drug , 40 % request federal 
authority . 
wiretap installation hear average 1487 
call , 22 % incriminate , among 131 people , cost 
average $ extrapolate 794 installation 
report cost , mostly labor . 
thus total $ 40 million spend wiretap , obtain 
4000 arrest , $ 10,000 per arrest . 
thus arrest 
least four time expensive $ 2500 per arrest figure one 
get divide $ 28 billion spend police nationally 
total 11 million arrest 3 . 
thus $ 30 million per 
year spend phone tap one total police 
expenditure . 
divide 138 million phone `` access '' 
line country 3 , get 23 cent spend per year per 
phone line , two cent month . 
general , deter give class criminal combination 
perceive probability catch convict , 
expected punishment level convict . 
social value 
wiretap amount would pay get 
criminal deterrence means . 
unable 
wiretap particular suspect 's phone , police might instead use hide 
microphone , investigate suspect way . 
police 
might focus suspect easily investigate without wiretap . 

might raise fine prison time certain type crime . 
generously assume substitute wiretap would 
average twice expensive wiretap , annual social 
benefit phone wiretap equal current spending level 
two cent month per phone line . 
wiretap cost 
let moment optimistically assume us government 
encryption scheme secure whatever private enterprise would 
offer instead , protect conversation spy 
ear neighbor , corporation , government , foreign 
domestic . 
even , need support wiretap would add many 
additional cost build maintain communication system . 
extra law enforcement block would add phone transmission , 
increase traffic unknown percentage . 
special process must 
use add encryption key chip , securely distribute 
key special agency , must fund monitor . 
chip design military contractor , whose 
design remain secret , manufacture special 
process chip become nearly impossible take apart . 
chips offer relatively high price $ 30 
lot 10,000 4 . 
private encryption system support 
wiretap would require none extra cost . 
perhaps important , government degree would least partially 
replace private marketplace evolution standard voice 
represent , encrypt , exchange future phone . 

widely believe government less efficient private 
enterprise procure product standard , though may perhaps 
perform useful broker role choose compete private 
standard . 
much less efficient matter debate , say 
pay twice much , might say 10 % . 
currently , total $ 96 billion spend operating expense 
u.s. phone company 3 , come $ 60 per month per 
access line . 
compare wiretap value two cent per 
month , see wiretap raise average operating cost even 
much one part 3000 , wiretap cost effective ! 
even include extra cost phone owner pay 
encryption chip expensive . 
course phone 
would encryption chip , wiretap benefit 
per phone still , argument still apply . 
conclusion 
give dramatic difference total cost run 
phone system value wiretap , justify 
slightest modification phone system accommodate wiretap . 
modification require allow investigator 
attach clip phone wire , wiretap support may reasonable . 
consider substantial modification , burden proof 
clearly propose modification show cost 
would really less benefit . 
consensus obtain estimate , 
compromise might tax phone support wiretap 
rate say five cent per month , tax payable police agency 
nationwide compensate loss wiretap ability . 
1 invisible weapon , oxford press , isbn 
2 report application order authorize approve 
interception wire , oral , electronic communications , 1990 , 
administrative office u.s. courts , washington , dc . 
3 u.s. statistical abstract , 1992 . 
4 dorothy denning , `` clipper chip : technical summary '' , 
distribute newsgroup april 21 , 1993 . 
-- 
robin hanson 
, nasa ames research center , moffett field , ca 
male terrace , fremont , ca 
