: andy cohen 
subject : report redesign team 
organization : 
lines : 172 
distribution : world 
: . 

following feed ... post already , 
number item see yet ... 
redesign activity update -- follow weekly status redesign , 
base information provide nasa headquarters . 
station redesign team srt provide detailed status report 
advisory committee redesign space station april 22 . 

day-long meeting hold anser facility crystal city , va ; topic 
cover srt include preliminary mission goal statement 
space station ; science , technology engineering research ; 
assessment process ; design approach . 
discussion management 
option operation concept also hold . 
design teams present three option study : 
say team work define station meet cost goal 
identify three distinct phase evolution - power station , human tend 
permanent presence . 
team define minimum capability need 
achieve phase , total cost phase achievable 
capability budget level . 
option use current simplify 
freedom hardware cost effective consider exist 
system so-called `` spacecraft , '' orbiter spacelab . 
power station capability could achieve 3 flight freedom 
photo voltaic module provide 20 kw power . 
30-day 
mission dock power station assume phase . 
human tend capability would provide addition u.s. 
common module module add subsystem 9 payload rack docking 
port esa japanese laboratory . 
60-day mission orbiter 
dock station assume phase . 
different 
mode study phase . 
b activity . 
griffin detail evolution option , 
initial research capability , capability , permanent 
human presence capability , two fault tolerance , finally permanent 
human capability . 
griffin also outline propose system change 
baseline program , minor change communications track 
system , crew health care system , major change datum 
management system . 
initial research capability would achieve 2 flight 28.5 degree 
inclination 3 flight 51.6 degree consist extended duration 
combination dock truss segment 2 photo voltaic 
array provide 18.75 kw power . 
capability would achieve 6 flight add truss 
segment u.s. lab . 
permanent human presence capability would achieve 8 flight two 
orbiter provide habitation assure crew return . 
two fault tolerance , achieve 11 flight , would build 
section truss another set pv module , thermal control 
propulsion system . 
freedom derive configuration could achieve international complete 
state 16 flight . 
three flight , bring habitat module , 
third pv array two assured crew return vehicles would complete 
permanent human capability international stage . 
griffin tell redesign advisory committee eliminate hardware 
would , , meet budget guideline freedom derive 
option . 
major reduction deferral must occur area include 
program management , contractor , early utilization 
operation cost , say . 
single launch core station concept . 
shuttle external tank solid 
rocket booster would use launch station orbit . 
shuttle 
main engine would mount tail station module launch 
jettison et separation . 
module , 23 foot diameter 92 foot long , would provide 26,000 
cubic foot pressured volume , separate 7 `` deck '' connect 
centralize passageway . 
seven berth port would locate various 
place circumference module place international 
module , element . 
`` '' would two fixed photo voltaic 
array produce approximately 40 kw power fly solar 
attitude . 
closing comment redesign advisory committee , bryan o'connor 
say design freeze would establish 3 option april 26 
detailed cost option begin . 
next meeting 
redesign advisory committee may 3 . 
russian consultant arrive u.s. -- delegation 16 russian space 
expert arrive u.s. april 21 briefing srt member 
russian team begin 22nd . 
group include russian space 
agency general director y. m. koptev , v. a. yatsenko , also rsa . 
team include representative ministry defense , 
design bureau salyut , institute biomedical problem , 
ministry foreign affairs , npo energia . 
russian team 
brief srt environmental control life support system , docking 
system , proton launch vehicle , mir operation utilization , 
soyuz tm spacecraft . 
russian consultant available srt assess capability 
mir space station , possible use mir russian 
capability system part space station redesign . 

available srt may 5 . 
management operations review continue -- work continue srt 
subgroup . 
management group dr. walt brooks work 
develop family option solve current problem build 
foundation transition development operation . 
various 
management option develop include : 
command . 
administrator . 
hand-picked program office . 
element current program . 
geographical distribution maintain streamlined . 
operations group dr. john cox build work 
operations phase assessment team lead gene kranz , 
already begin comprehensive review operation conclude 
preliminary result significant cost reduction possible . 
part work , operations group identify team agency 
expert develop detailed evaluation design area 
assembly operation , utilization , maintenance logistics testing 
ground operation . 
week ahead ? 
-- design support team provide 
comprehensive status option station redesign team monday 
tuesday point design `` freeze '' begin 
detailed cost assessment . 
also week , team begin prepare 
next round discussion redesign advisory committee , 
hold may 3 . 
dr. shea step -- dr. joe shea step director 
station redesign team april 22 bryan o'connor take 
activity team . 
dr. shea submit resignation assistant 
deputy administrator space station analysis , continue serve 
special advisory nasa administrator goldin available 
consult srt . 
mr goldin accept resignation request 
dr. shea reduce workload could accommodate . 
key milestone -- key date srt currently 
carry schedule : 
april 26 
design freeze option cost 
april 27 
design support team present selected options srt 
may 3 
status report redesign advisory committee 
may 15 
interim report redesign advisory committee 
june 7 
final report redesign advisory committee 
oct. ... opinion ... ac 
