: rich young 
subject : re : msg sensitivity superstition ? 
originator : 
: sasquatch 
: 
organization : clinical diagnostics division , eastman kodak company 
lines : 86 
article < > steve pope write : 
mass evidence , combine lack 
properly construct scientific experiment disprove 
hypothesis , make msg reaction hypothesis 
likely explanation event . 
following critique `` 60 minutes '' presentation msg 
air november 3rd , 1991 . 
critique come tuft 
diet nutrition letter , february 1992 . 
... edit brevity ... 
`` chance good watch '60 minutes ' last november 
3rd 1991 , come away feel msg bad . 
... 
segment entitle ` msg , ' instance , show host ed bradley 
make alarming statement without adequately substantiate 
` million suffer host symptom , get violently 
sick ' ; pepper report sensational clinically unproven 
personal testimony ... ; speak study msg make 
substance seem harmful without explain inconclusive 
study . 
consider make reference beginning program 
study conduct eastern virginia medical school order 
back comment ' lot evidence ' msg , 
flavor enhancer chinese asian cuisine well 
many supermarket item , cause headache . 

make reference fact study perform 
human rabbit . 
one researcher conduct study , pharmacologist 
patricia williams , ph.d. , say certainly conceivable 
small minority people sensitive enough msg get 
headache . 
` , ' explain , ` show probably 
overemphasize extent problem . ' 
second lapse come mention dr. john olney , professor 
washington university school medicine , mr. bradley 
remark , ` say 20 year research laboratory 
animal show msg hazard develop youngster ' 
pose threat irreversible brain damage . 
dr. olney 's 
research lab animal ` show ' anything human 
youngster . 
fact , extreme dr. olney 's 
experiment ever bring brain damage : inject 
extremely high dose msg rodent , completely bypass 
digestive tract enter bloodstream directly , 
use tube huge amount substance 
young animal empty stomach . 
course , neither 
procedure occur human ; simply take msg 
food . 
take break 
enzyme wall small intestine , little 
reach bloodstream -- much little , fact , human 
blood level msg come anywhere near high concentration 
find dr. olney 's lab animal ... 
world health organization appear much aware 
fact . 
european community ' scientific 
committee food ... , examine numerous study , 
conclude msg safe . 
determination make sense , consider msg never 
prove cause symptom attribute 
-- headache , swell , tightness chest , 
burn sensation , among . 
fact , fail-safe 
clinical study , double-blind study ... , consistently 
exonerate much-maligned substance . 
quite fortunate since alleged hazardous component 
monosodium glutamate , glutamate , enter system whenever 
eat food contain protein . 
reason one 
amino acid make protein , glutamic acid , break 
glutamate digestion . 
breakdown occur frequently . 
glutamic acid 
abundant 20 amino acid diet . 
make 
15 percent protein flesh food , 20 percent 
milk , 25 percent corn , 29 percent whole wheat . 
mean entirely unimaginable small number 
people trouble metabolize msg properly therefore 
sensitive ... consensus reach large , international 
professional organization msg safe , consensus 
reach fda biomedical community large . '' 
- rich young kodak 's opinion . 
