: yigal arens 
subject : arrest fugitive adl case 
organization : sciences institute 
lines : 105 
distribution : world 
: 
los angeles times , saturday , may 8 , 1993 . 
page a11 . 
figure adl spy case arrest s.f. airport 
espionage : former police officer take custody upon 
arrive philippines , flee fbi 
interrogation . 
jenifer warren , times staff writer 
san francisco -- former san francisco police officer flee 
philippines amid accusation funnel confidential law 
enforcement information investigator anti-defamation 
league arrest airport 11 felony charge , police 
say friday . 
thomas j. gerard abruptly leave united states october 
fbi question activity , apprehend thursday 
night source philippines tell investigator gerard 
return home . 
gerard , 50 , book san francisco county jail early friday 
morning eight count theft government document one count 
computer theft , burglary conspiracy . 
convict charge , gerard could face 16 year prison 
$ 40,000 fine . 
bail initially set $ 250,000 police 
argue flight risk , later reduce $ 20,000 . 
friend gerard try post bail late friday afternoon , 
sheriff 's spokeswoman say . 
gerard return united miss wife child , 
live houseboat sausalito , `` want 
day court , '' say police capt. john willett , former boss 
one two arrest officer . 
gerard , undercover agent central intelligence agency 
1982 1985 , also fear cia kill , willett 
say . 
interview times last month , gerard threaten 
disclose illegal cia support death squad central america 
indict try san francisco spy charge . 
gerard central figure scandal intelligence network 
operate anti-defamation league , prominent jewish civil 
rights organization . 
investigator allege gerard illegally give 
criminal history roy bullock , san francisco art dealer say 
undercover adl intelligence operative 40 year . 
investigator say find confidential police file bullock 's 
home computer -- contain entry 10,000 people 950 
group -- box apartment . 
file also seize 
search warrant adl office san francisco los 
angeles authority disclose contents . 
gerard could reach comment friday , attorney , 
james , return telephone call seek comment . 

interview times last month , however , gerard acknowledge 
snoop share information bullock , deny 
criminal wrongdoing . 
bullock gerard also investigation sell 
intelligence south africa . 
adl official describe bullock $ independent 
contractor vigorously deny knowledge illegal 
activity . 
friday , adl lawyer jerrold ladar say gerard 's arrest 
`` nothing adl . 
, comment 
case . '' 
arab-american group -- main target spy , 
accord police -- applaud arrest press authority 
pursue investigation . 
`` urge investigator carry case forward publicly 
disclose full extent adl law enforcement involvement , '' say 
james zogby , head arab american institute washington . 
police , meanwhile , characterize gerard 's arrest -- first 
inquiry spy scandal -- unexpected breakthrough . 

former police colleague gerard , inspector fred , visit 
gerard several week ago urge return home . 
`` know would want live island lam forever , 
think would happen quickly , '' capt. willett say . 
`` development really speed timetable case . '' 
25-year career police force , gerard highly 
regard officer know work department 's intelligence 
division . 
last assignment gang task force . 
fbi agent question gerard last fall , take early retirement 
flee remote jungle island palawan , 300 mile south 
manila . 
gerard arrest 8:40 p.m. step philippines 
airline flight . 
travel alone look tan haggard 
six-month hiatus , police say . 
`` surprise see stand , get shocked 
look face , '' willett say . 
`` say , ` hello , back . ' '' 
-- 
yigal arens 
tv make ! 

