: andrew betz 
subject : randy weaver trial update : day 4 . 
: 
organization : fan club 
lines : 87 
note : trial update summarize report 
_ idaho statesman _ local nbc affiliate television 
station , channel 7 . 
randy harris trial update : day 4 . 
friday , april 16 , 1993 fourth day trial . 
synopsis : defense attorney gerry spence cross-examine agent 
cooper repeat objection prosecutor ronald 
howen . 
spence move mistrial deny . 
day mark caustic cross-examination deputy 
marshal larry cooper defense attorney gerry spence . 
although 
spence explicitly state , one angle stategy 
must involve destroy credibility agent cooper . 
cooper 
government 's eyewitness death agent degan . 
spence attack cooper 's credibility point discrepancy 
cooper 's statement last september make court . 
cooper concede , `` thing compress 
seconds ... difficult remember go first . '' 
cooper acknowledge carry `` 9mm colt commando submachine 
gun silence barrel . '' 
think colt commando revolver ! 
cooper continue state federal agent specific 
plan use weapon start kill weaver 's dog . 
spence ask seven cartridge could fire degan 's 
m-16 rifle degan apparently dead , cooper could say 
sure degan return fire go . 
spence continue ask many agent extent 
cooper discuss last august 's event , cooper respond , `` 
imply get story together , wrong , 
counselor . '' 
spence continue advance defense 's version 
event : namely , marshal start shooting 
kill weaver 's dog . 
cooper disagree . 
assistant u.s. attorney ronald howen repeatedly object spence 's 
virulent cross-examination agent cooper , argue question 
repetitive spence waste time . 
howen also complain 
spence improperly use cross-examination advance 
defense 's version event . 
u.s. district judge edward lodge 
sustained many objection ; however , lawyer persist 
judge lodge jury leave room procede 
admonish attorney . 
`` go play game either 
counsel . 
personality problem day 1 , start 
act like professional . '' 
spence tell judge , `` evidence , 'll see 
... agent larry cooper testimony credible , 
panic remember sequence event . '' 
spence continue , `` go find ... unlikely 
similarity - almost come cookie cutter - 
testimony mr. cooper witness . '' 
spence move mistrial grounds howen 's repeat 
objection would prevent fair trial , `` fair trial 
jury believe sort charlatan , jury believe 
bend rule engage delaying tactic 
violate court order . '' 
judge lodge call notion repeated sustaining howen 's 
objection somehow prejudice jury `` preposterous '' 
deny motion mistrial . 
lodge tell howen restrict 
comment object . 
trial resume prosecution call fbi special agent greg 
rampton . 
prosecution 's purpose simply introduce five 
weapon find cabin evidence : however , defense seize 
opportunity address cooper 's credibility . 
defense attorney ellison matthews harris ' attorney question 
rampton dog . 
rampton state specific 
plan kill weaver 's dog without detect . 
matthews 
rampton read 15 , 1992 transcript rampton 
say cooper say purpose silence weapon 
kill dog without detect , dog chase . 
rampton acknowledge believe cooper say , 
could remember . 
state , `` conduct 
primary interview deputy cooper , conversation 
since interview conduct . '' 
monday , april 19 , 1993 begin fifth day trial . 
schedule 
continued cross-examination fbi agent greg rampton . 
