: 
subject : kubota vs. 
organization : center instructional research computing activity 
lines : 70 
: 
: 
people ask information kubota graphic 
workstation , info vs. 
freedom . 
text denali vs. freedom d.h. brown associates . 
------ 
denali bear strong resemblance evans sutherlands freedom graphic 
subsystem several aspect high-level design . 
product use 
parallel array processor geometric computation . 

pixel router connect front end second array 
pixel processor . 
result , denali overlap significantly 
performance functionality . 
design team also appear 
similar philosophy respect modularity , scalability , market 
penetration . 
remain , however , several important difference kpc 
product . 
evans sutherland design freedom high-end 
developer 's dream system plenty performance potential 
flexibility . 
favor , freedom configuration two 
sixteen float point unit , border range start end 
higher price performance level denali . 
freedom 
system include large , fixed number pixel processor 
support broader variety color blending function . 
freedom 
design treat entire image memory general-purpose memory , allow 
developer allocate flexible basis number special-purpose 
application . 
finally , provide freedom flexible 
video integration feature multimedia simulation application . 
note 
kpc work auxiliary board ntsc pal output 
require external video encoder . 
programmable output feature , 
however , remain much flexible . 
kpc design team , contrast , make denali end-user 's system . 
entry version better performance range flexibility low-end 
freedom configuration , come realistic mainstream price 
point . 
denali need many module 
use deeper pipeline support one , result 
better characteristic . 
although product provide 
strong support 3d , imaging , volume rendering , kpc recognize 
user want even mix capability . 
denali 's 
configuration flexibility allow customer effect purchase 
geometric pixel processing capability separately , upgrade 
separately need . 
company implement hardware texture mapping 
workstation price level way attack sgi 's expensive 
system -- product provide 
capability . 
kpc support point sampling bilinear interpolation 
texture hardware , provide software support higher 
interpolated method . 
balance , however , denali 
provided overall texturing capability application . 
aside much affordable , kpc solution deliver parallelism 
texture processing off-screen memory general graphic 
datum storage . 
implement texture mapping transformation 
module , foce customer move quickly higher price level 
obtain better texturing performance . 
kubota avoid problem link 
texturing frame buffer modules , provide lower-cost , scalable 
solution . 
hope help , 
brian 
ps reprint without permission . 
full text , please contact 
kubota . 
