: morgoth 
subject : zoroastrianism - san jose - merc news article 
organization : portal system tm 
distribution : world 
lines : 169 
zoroastrianism 
san jose , ca , usa 
monday april 5 , 1993 
san jose mercury news , page 1 
reproduce without permission 
_ tradition still glow - 
` assimilation u.s. threaten ancient zoroastrian religion ' _ 
jeanne huber , mercury news staff writer 
high hillside san jose , flame leap 24 hour day 
gleam brass urn temple - one four united states - 
dedicate one world 's ancient religion . 
flame go prayer 1,200 bay area zoroastrians 
faith survive land . 
`` fear - real fear , , '' say tarapore lafayette . 
`` one generation die . '' 
many immigrant group struggle maintain identity strange land . 
zoroastrians , especially poignant concern . 
religion around perhaps 3,700 year , heritage deep 
scarcely seem comprehensible state `` historical site '' 
sometimes less 100 year old . 
religion great persian 
empire king cyrus darius . 
tradition say christ 
bear 500 year later , honor visit three 
zoroastrian priest , magi . 
scholar say many key belief christian , 
jews muslims trace teaching zoroaster , 
zoroastrian prophet . 
yet , 150,000 zoroastrians entire world , 
miniscule minority every country live . 
survival 
people much mind . 
ironically , local zoroastrians fear almost unlimited tolerance 
united states may hundred year persecution follow 
nearly 1,000 year benign religious segregation could : cause 
young people stop think zoroastrians . 
zoroastrian believe right religion , 
actually shun notion try win convert . 
child 
become totally assimilate , say , child - rather 
world large - loser . 
`` important identity , '' say san jose , 
leader among zoroastrians come india . 
`` important 
everybody - irish , scottish , americans . 
give mean life . 
depend majority community give respect . 
fall back identity . '' 
zoroastrians , much proud . 
prophet , zoroaster , seek make sense culture 
animal sacrifice multiple god common , preach 
one god , good one . 
zoroastrians call god ahura mazda , 
translate lord wisdom light . 
_ good vs. evil _ 
zoroaster see life constant struggle good evil , 
good eventually win . 
man woman could join battle 
good , say , warn would inevitably suffer consequence 
shame sorrow wrong . 
preach honesty , charity , 
kindness animal , respect environment , hard work , equality 
man woman - basic virtue preach prophet many religion . 
zoroaster perhaps unusual tell follower 
follow blindly . 
demand think . 
fact , 
joseph campbell , famous scholar history meaning myth , 
trace western emphasis individual thought zoroastrians . 
zoroastrians many word thought . 
motto , lead 
stain glass window sacred fire temple slope 
mount hamilton , `` good thought , good word , good deed . '' 
surprising zoroastrians value education highly . 
india , 
contingent zoroastrians arrive ninth century escape 
persecution muslims iran , zoroastrians claim 100 percent literacy ; 
overall statistic india 60 percent . 
half bay area zoroastrian community come india 
pakistan , mostly study university . 
half flee 
iran 1979 revolution make fundamentalist islamic state 
rights . 
local zoroastrian point pride way emphasis `` good 
deed '' improve life every country inhabit . 
san jose , 
recent restoration hotel sainte clarie come 
manou , san francisco-based hotelier , pass boarded-up 
downtown landmark way temple . 
temple 's 
dedication , chief guest honor mother zubin mehta , 
zoroastrian conductor new york philharmonic orchestra . 
temple exist another good deed : decision 
iranian emigre , late arbab rustom , buy land six temple 
north america . 
besides 10-acre site crothers road mount 
hamilton , pay land los angeles , chicago , new york , toronto , 
vancouver . 
gift , zoroastrian temple 
continent . 
local zoroastrian raise money build actual temple , 
property already large house convert 
community center . 
temple , dedicate year ago birthday prophet 
zoroaster , simple structure gleam white wall , vault 
ceiling oak floor , partially cover huge oriental carpet . 
central feature fire , set middle - 
area center building . 
although zoroastrian 
sometimes call `` fire worshipper , '' actually consider fire 
symbol god . 
`` help concentrate , like christian use 
cross muslims use holy book , '' say . 
biggest celebration year occur early spring . 

iranians , include zoroastrians , new year begin first day 
season symbolism start new life . 

zoroaster 's birthday six day later , combination religious 
secular holiday create something par 
united states celebrate christmas jan. 1 . 
year 's celebration prophet 's birthday , 500 people 
come worship revel . 
`` good thing life forbid , '' esfandiar , 
leader iranian member , say beforehand , follow 
prove right . 
inside temple , worshiper fill every chair sit stand 
around edge room half-dozen priest chant 
prayer around table laden brazier smoking 
sandalwood , glass milk water , tray heap dry fruit 
nut . 
kid crowd around , grab handful treat . 
`` people eat 
fruit , '' tarapore say . 
`` way participate ceremony . '' 
_ santa claus , sort _ 
gathering even santa claus , iranian style . 
flow white 
hair bag gift child , wear green 
symbolic spring red . 
ush sort spring clown , , dance 
play tambourine . 
zoroastrians india charm . 
`` new , , '' 
one tell visitor ask go . 
visitor , john a. folsom , say become intrigue 
religion year ago business trip iran . 
zoroastrians 
procedure accept convert - result , say , 
century persecution iran follow promise hindu 
king allow india would interfere 
people 's religion . 
stop join celebration 
san jose temple whenever . 
`` first hear religion , '' say , `` think , god , 
religion . 
think good . 
`` people tradition , something lean , 
difference lower animal ? '' 
------------------------------------------------ end article -- 
