: serdar 
subject : jews constantly go fear armenian greek attack ... 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 163 
article < > panos write : 
> simply want , thing greeks turkey . 

> turkish state recognize crime greek minority , 
pardon ? 
history show within last 170 year , greeks play 
game twice : use istanbul patriarch grigorios 1822 
instigate morea rebellion result massacre 
muslim people . 
, orthodox patriarch constantine v 
invite russian czar nicholas ii invade ottoman empire 
` name jesus , ' save flock ottoman rule . 
source : `` ` past ' medieval modern greek culture , '' speros 
, ed. , ` kai , ' vol malibu , 
calif. , 1978 . 
p. 161 . 
word professor , `` savage jubilance , greeks 
sing word ` let turk remain morea , whole world . ' 
greeks determine achieve ` ' way 
know : war religious extermination . '' 
leader ashkenazi community complain 
president aiu alliance israelite universelle 1902 
persistent greek attack jewish quarter : 
'' fanatic greeks city , place thrace , 
habit , contrary spirit real christianity , 
make replica judas burn night 
holy saturday . 
construct wooden figure , cover 
clothing claim ancient jews , 
burn publicly middle multitude ignorant 
fanatic . 
often happen multitude , already excite 
tale suffering christ make 
church , appearance execution 
suppose betray christ , work great anger 
jews ... long time know year , 
day , cut head arm corpse 
cemetery burn great solemnity . 
make 
complaint order create difference 
two community . 
audacious madness fanatic 
increase . 
see flame hear cry 
hatred vengeance jews . '' 
42 
42 ashkenazi community , , aiu no. , 2 may 1902 , aiu 
archive paris ii c 8 , report print el tiempo 1 may 1902 . 
source : professor stanford j. shaw , ` jews ottoman empire 
turkish republic , ' new york university press , new york 1991 . 
page : 
1865 , immediately enactment new organic statute 
jewish community , jewish capital europe begin 
effect istanbul , local armenians greeks start pogrom 
jews immediately across sea marmara , terminus 
anatolia railroad , three hundred jews massacre many 
beat rape disturbance stop sultan send 
personal guard across bay protect jews 39 . 
later year , ritual murder attack jews , carry mostly 
native greeks , armenians , , arab province , maronites 
arab christian , often assistance local european 
consul , take place throughout empire . 
literally thousand 
incident continuously world war , southeastern europe far 
west north monastir , istanbul , gallipoli 
dardanelles , salonica , arab province far south 
damascus beirut egypt cairo alexandria . 

invariably result accusation spread among ottoman christian 
word mouth , publish newspaper , often christian 
financier merchant anxious get jewish competitor 
way divert onto jews muslim anger report christian 
massacre muslims southeastern europe central asia , result 
individual mob attack jews , burning shop 
home . 
individual experience horrible . 
jews constantly go fear 
armenian greek attack street ottoman city . 
egypt 
syria , usually greeks lead way , many case 
assistance local armenians syrian christian , whose 
greek , arabic french-language newspaper often print 
rumor could find regard jews , evidently desire 
instigate violence . 
syrian arab christian particular spread 
long-standing anti-semitic hatred syria egypt , 
monopoly local press espousal popular cause 
egyptian nationalism opposition british rule , enable 
spread anti-jewish message among muslim mass 
little question opposition . 
20 june 1890 , thus , sir evelyn baring later lord cromer , british 
high commissioner egypt , receive follow report david 
nissim ades , cairo : 
'' sir , 
beg sir draw attention violent article 
sic appear arabic paper call el 
contain nothing lie false accusation jews , 
especially issue 14th , 17th 19th instant . 
, sir , anti-semitic party amidst fanaticism , 
greeks , armenians , etc. , allow continue poison 
people 's mind exaggeration paint word ? 
article , 
assert jews use christian blood passover , course 
cause deal excitement . '' 
40 
whenever greek orthodox religious authority prominent 
greek business leader consul ask help stem violence 
reduce tension , invariably indicate cooperation 
fail anything prevent attack punish stimulate 
lead . 
41 
leader ashkenazi community complain 
president aiu alliance israelite universelle 1902 
persistent greek attack jewish quarter : 
'' fanatic greeks city , place thrace , 
habit , contrary spirit real christianity , 
make replica judas burn night 
holy saturday . 
construct wooden figure , cover 
clothing claim ancient jews , 
burn publicly middle multitude ignorant 
fanatic . 
often happen multitude , already excite 
tale suffering christ make 
church , appearance execution 
suppose betray christ , work great anger 
jews ... long time know year , 
day , cut head arm corpse 
cemetery burn great solemnity . 
make 
complaint order create difference 
two community . 
audacious madness fanatic 
increase . 
see flame hear cry 
hatred vengeance jews . '' 
42 
39 el tiempo , 28 april 1926 ; galante , istanbul , 185 ; galante , document v , 
. 
40 fo , enclose baring no. 207 lord salisbury , cairo , 
25 june 1890 , reprint landau , ` ritual murder accusation ' , p. 450 . 
41 jacob landau , ` ritual murder accusation persecution jews 
nineteenth century egypt ' , v 1961 , ; example 
see report bulletin de israelite universelle : 
serie paris , first 1881 , . 
galante also 
report similar difficulty greek religious leader 
teach rhodes . 
42 ashkenazi community , , aiu no. , 2 may 1902 , aiu 
archive paris ii c 8 , report print el tiempo 1 may 1902 . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
