: paul thompson schreiber 
subject : enemy within 
: . 

organization : school engineering apply science ; ; dallas , tx 
lines : 692 
enemy within 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
robert i. friedman 
village voice , may 11 , 1993 , vol . 
xxxviii no. 19 
| anti-defamation league turn notion | 
| human rights head , spy progress - | 
| ive funnel information law enforcement | 
roy bullock want spy since teenager indiana 
read `` lead three life , '' herbert philbrick 's cold war saga 
penetrate communist party fbi . 
philbrick become 
american folk hero 1950 build dossier unsuspecting 
colleague . 
time hollywood produce 30 film 
portray informer quintessential american patriot . 

boston , philbrick lead three life fbi informant , communist 
party member , private citizen , mayor even proclaim herbert 
philbrick day present spy plaque . 
bullock , shy young man come term 
homosexuality '50s , life double agent 
perfect way hide lifestyle fight communist 
menace . 
`` fascinate herbert philbrick , '' bullock recently tell 
federal investigator , `` think would try infiltrate 
communist part . 
1957 , go sixth world youth student 
festival moscow american delegation . 
give fbi 
full report return , along photo take 
soviet military vehicle . '' 
bullock hooked . 
next two year , work unpaid 
informant fbi . 
find true call become 
pay spy anti-defamation league 1960 . 
activity 
center biggest domestic spy scandal recent 
american history -- scandal may end adl 's criminal 
indictment san francisco . 
30-year period , compile computer file adl 
individual 950 group political stripe , 
include naacp , rainbow coalition , aclu , american indian 
movement , center investigative reporting , pacifica , act , 
palestinian arab group , sandinista solidarity group , americans 
peace , anti-apartheid organization . 
bullock , even 
spy recently slay south african nationalist chris hani 
visit bay area april 1991 , sell many adl file 
anti-apartheid activist south african intelligence . 
meanwhile , 
1985 1993 , adl pay nearly $ 170,000 , use 
prominent beverly hills attorney conduit order conceal 
financial relationship bullock . 
last month , police raid adl office los angeles san 
francisco , well bullock 's home , confiscate computer file 
box document . 
accord court record , bullock 's file 
contain driver 's license vehicle registration information , 
addition criminal history individual -- much 
allegedly steal fbi police computer . 
bullock , 58 , tell 
fbi copy virtually everything computer datum base 
give san francisco adl office . 
`` base 
evidence , '' say inspector ron roth , police affidavit , `` believe 
roy bullock adl numerous peace officer supply 
confidential criminal dmv information . '' 
, san francisco d.a. investigate bullock 
tap phone , access answering machine , assume false 
identity infiltrate organization . 
document seize 
bullock 's home also contain evidence foray bay area 
trash : name phone number employee 
christic institute san francisco , well telephone message 
slip staff member include name phone number caller , 
office correspondence list name return address 
sender , memo . 
also receipt christic 
institute 's bank account wells fargo eureka federal savings , 
well itemized cancel check name payee , 
date , amount . 
bullock even know balance christic 
institute 's checking account . 
investigation fbi police san francisco reveal 
adl share least spy gathering material 
israeli government official . 
, israel apparently use 
tip adl detain palestinian americans travel . 

adl establish new york city 1913 defend jews , 
later minority group , discrimination . 
lead fight 
racist fascist group like ku klux klan 
american nazi party , 1960s champion civil rights 
movement . 
also darker side . 
late 1940 , adl spy 
leftist communists , share investigative file house 
committee un-american activities fbi . 
adl swing 
sharply right reagan administration , become 
bastion neoconservatism . 
irwin , repentant trotskyite 
head adl 's powerful fact finding department , real danger 
jews pose right -- coalition leftist , 
black , arabs , view threaten fabric democracy 
america , well state israel . 
tradition 
ideological soulmate william casey , direct adl 's vast 
network informant , give code name like `` scumbag , '' 
`` ironside , '' -- spy reportedly pose priest atlanta 
-- `` flipper . '' 
year , journalist liberal member jewish community 
know adl spy right-wing hate group . 
long target 
anti-semitic organization like liberty lobby lyndon 
larouche , one seem particularly trouble . 
bullock 
case reveal adl also spy group nonviolent , 
progressive orientation . 
apparent massive violation civil 
liberty may end adl 's criminal indictment san francisco , 
investigation begin . 
human rights group face possible 
criminal prosecution many 48 felony count , include 
indictment gain illegal access police computer . 
say one 
source close west coast investigation , `` 99 per cent 
certain adl indict . '' 
wake san francisco investigation , police probe adl 
spy spread part country . 
`` receive 
numerous complaint adl spy , '' say sam adams , 
spokesperson mayor 's office portland , oregon . 
april 16 , black united fund new york , 
african american self-help group bullock allegedly spy , 
write district attorney robert morgenthau , request `` immediate 
investigation '' adl . 
`` adl 's action cause great concern , 
direct flagrant violation -- minimum -- civil 
rights ... call upon join district attorney san 
francisco ... bring end latest form mccarthyism . '' 
gerald mckelvey , spokesperson morgenthau 's office , say , `` 
evidence warrant sort investigation . '' 
mckelvey add morgenthau offer assist fbi san 
francisco d.a. 's office pend investigation . 
`` 
, far , ask assistance . '' 
adl acknowledge share information group 
law enforcement official . 
also admit maintain extensive 
file wide variety organization , say , two-page 
press release , `` vast majority adl 's file compose news 
clip , magazine article , book , journal , document ... '' 
`` adl make clear countenance 
violation law part anyone connect agency , 
process league gather information presently 
review insure law violate . '' 
adl say public consumption . 
morale low 
employee complain sleepless night cry fit . 

even jewish group circle wagon around adl show 
solidarity , many hold nose . 
jewish 
official privately say adl decide whether human 
rights group secret police agency . 
`` adl regard inside jewish community outside 
jewish community definitive source information anti- 
semitism extremist group , '' say daniel levitas , former 
executive director center democratic renewal , atlanta - 
base group monitor anti-semitism , racism , hate group . 
`` one thing scandal completely 
taint adl 's credibility reputation regard 
objectivity . 
scandal go devastating blow 
jewish community large people regard adl synonymous 
american jewry . '' 

bullock 's talent snoop extreme conservatism mesh well 
adl 's cold war worldview . 
1960 , move southern 
california become adl spy $ 75.00 week . 
bullock 
almost always use real name snoop , although 
call elmer fink correspond supporter 
alabama governor george wallace . 
bullock provide adl 's office 
los angeles write report , transmit fact 
finding department head irwin , accord court record . 
's stewardship , fact finding department become 
adl 's heart soul . 
locate adl national headquarters across 
united nations , department assemble vast library 
`` hate group , '' cull material publication , speech , 
informant report . 
bullock adept lead double life . 
long 
move california , ingratiate woman john 
birch society help gain access group 's boston office . 
, find file right-winger keep adl . 

discovery give rise speculation adl new york office 
somehow penetrate birchers . 
bullock focus almost exclusively right-wing extremist group 
early 1970s adl l.a. head milton sinn replace 
harvey schechter , encourage target leave well . 

year later , bullock move castro district san francisco 
pose art dealer . 
adl fact finder 
infiltrate local arab community expose . 

ensue scandal die , bullock order adl penetrate 
arabs . 
adl especially concern american-arab 
discrimination committee , found former south dakota senator 
james abourezk combat . 
page cia 's 
dirty trick handbook penetration destabilization , bullock 
join adc , recruit nazis group , apparently 
try discredit , accord publish report . 
1987 , adl send bullock attend national association 
arab americans annual congress washington . 
accord court 
document , bullock tell find source group 's fund . 
bullock unable `` follow money . '' 
good job 
ingratiate appoint head 
delegation visit congress member nancy pelosi . 
surprising adl penetrate arab organization . 

acute paranoia explain interest group like act . 

far bullock concern , gay group san francisco heavily 
infiltrate call `` gay left revolutionary , '' prompt 
write activity adl . 
bullock soon expand horizon , move shadowy realm 
foreign espionage richard hirschhaut , head adl 's san 
francisco office , introduce thomas gerard 1986 . 
gerard 
detective san francisco police department 's 
intelligence unit . 
gerard work demolition expert 
cia el salvador early 1980s , apparently 
pass interest right-wing death squad . 
police search 
gerard 's briefcase find extensive cia literature torture 
interrogation , photo blindfold chained man , well 
passport make gerard 10 different name , include thomas 
clouseau . 
remote jungle island redoubt philippines 
flee last november , gerard tell los angeles times 
blow lid cia 's involvement latin american death 
squad indict adl spy case . 
first encounter adl office , gerard bullock 
lunch mcdonald 's , `` like tom right , '' bullock later tell 
san francisco police investigator whose report interrogation 
obtain _ voice _ . 
`` tom charming , roguish 
character , great deal integrity . 
let say , 
consider tom gerard one finest policeman ever work 
, absolutely . 
honest , capable , intelligent 100 percent 
american . '' 
long , bullock provide gerard confidential adl 
report various group individual . 
turn , gerard give 
bullock classify police intelligence file local arab americans , 
skinhead , . 
bullock tell fbi gerard 's material 
end adl report . 
`` would say 99 percent datum 
get name , address , sometimes physical description . 
criminal 
history , rarely , '' bullock tell investigator . 
gerard also give 
bullock chart outline vast network bay area arab american 
businessman organization allegedly tie middle east 
terror group , well surveillance photo arab americans 
receive weapon training overseas . 
bullock claim u.s. custom 
new york give gerard photo . 
`` understand bullock 
would careful information gerard 
give , bullock would release except adl 
law enforcement officer , '' say fbi report . 
nothing unusual bullock 's cozy relationship law 
enforcement . 
mid-1980 , adl swap file 
hundred `` official friend , '' organization 's euphemism u.s. 
law enforcement intelligence source . 
adl 's relationship 
fbi 's counterterrorism office close adl 's report 
arab american group 's covert tie middle east terrorist `` must 
reading . '' 
accident police find 1986 classify fbi report 
entitle `` popular front liberation palestine pflp -- new 
york area '' search adl 's san francisco office . 
1987 , 
adl spook investigate seven palestinians kenyan study 
california university student visa . 
adl discover 
disseminate pflp literature , inform fbi , 
turn take case immigration naturalization service . 
ins order student deport subversive , adl 
regional director david lehrer gloat _ los angeles times _ 
office 's cooperation law enforcement , although 
backpedal . 
`` los angeles 8 '' deportation still 
appeal . 

adl work quietly america 's top cop , enjoy 
similar tie israel 's spy agency -- charge adl leader 
vehemently deny . 
early july 7 , 1961 , adl director benjamin 
epstein write b'nai b'rith executive secretary saul , 
request $ 25,000 investigator . 
`` information , '' 
boast , `` addition essential 
operation , great value service united 
states department israeli government . 
datum make 
available country full knowledge 
source . '' 
1987 , adl come fbi scrutiny wake pollard 
spy scandal . 
assign navy 's anti-terrorist alert 
center , access closely guard u.s. secret , 
jonathan pollard steal thousand page classify document 
israel , , accord federal prosecutor , `` could fill room 
size large closet ... ten foot six foot six foot . '' 
pollard 's handler avi sella , israeli air force colonel whose 
wife work new york adl lawyer . 
pollard later write 
friend prominent adl leader deeply involve israeli 
spy operation . 
proof anyone connect adl 
involve pollard , evidence adl freely pass 
information israeli intelligence . 
march 1993 , fbi 
interrogate david gurvitz , adl fact finder los angeles 
1992 fire illegally obtain police 
information use rival simon wiesenthal center . 
fbi pointedly ask gurvitz ever transmit information 
israel . 
gurvitz admit 1992 learn law 
enforcement contact michael elias , allegedly member 
radical plo faction , schedule travel san francisco 
international airport en route haifa . 
gurvitz phone deputy 
israeli consul general l.a. information . 
`` later 
day , '' accord 15-page fbi interview gurvitz obtain 
_ voice _ , `` gurvitz call back another man , say 
israeli consulate , ask gurvitz repeat information 
elias . 
gurvitz get man 's name , 
conversation hebrew gurvitz feel confident man 
actually israeli consulate official . '' 
among 12,000 name private citizen police find adl 
file san francisco mohammed jarad , 36-year-old chicago 
resident arrest israel january 25 , allegedly 
distribute hundred thousand dollar hamas , large 
islamic fundamentalist movement occupy territories . 

chicago adl office run least three undercover informant work 
`` official friend '' local law enforcement , accord 
document release san francisco d.a. source close 
adl . 
give fact , arab american group surmise adl 
pass information jarad israeli intelligence . 
one technique use adl monitor large arab american 
community midwest scan local arab press funeral 
notice . 
accord source familiar practice , adl 
investigator unmarked van videotape palestinian funeral , 
sometimes turn plo rally . 
palestinians 
detain ben-gurion airport simply basis 
film attend funeral chicago , accord suhail , 
executive director united holy land fund , whose cousin 
arab member israel 's knesset . 
shortly jarad arrest , israeli government announce 
hamas run america money operational 
instruction relay courier fax . 
israel 's charge play 
front page _ new york times _ . 
accord well - 
place source , yehudit barsky , adl fact finder new york , work 
closely israeli official campaign vilification , 
introduce `` friendly '' reporter `` official friend '' chicago law 
enforcement . 
barsky , fluent arabic , prepare adl report 
hamas fund america . 
identify dallas-based islamic 
association palestine north america front organization 
hamas u.s.a. `` infrastructure function 
interlock network organization , small business , 
individual activist , '' say february 1993 adl report , 
outline organization 's development , activity u.s. 
college campus , `` metamorphosis '' gulf war . 

also trace hamas fundraise plethora alleged front - 
group plainfield , indiana , culver city , california . 

doubtful barsky could compile sophisticated datum 
without help `` official friend '' adl spy . 
barsky refuse comment . 
use talk greg 
many three time week opposition researcher 
aipac , whose spy operation disclose last summer _ voice _ . 
`` level cooperation close , '' say 
recent phone conservation israel graduate school . 
`` feel file lack , contact adl . '' 
sha ` wan jabarin , 30-year-old palestinian human rights worker 
occupied territories win $ 25,000 reebok human rights award 
1990 , recall barsky fax aipac man 's entire 
police file , obtain israeli embassy . 
jabarin 
arrest numerous time israel , confess 
member plo severely tortured . 
jabarin , receive short jail term , become amnesty 
international prisoner conscience . 
course , aipac 
adl , jabarin terrorist . 
, order keep tab 
u.s. receive award , call 
representative al haq , palestinian human rights group 
employ jabarin , obtain itinerary . 
aipac even open file 
musician jackson browne , present jabarin reebok 
award . 
adl may able rationalize close monitoring 
arabs , even left-wing gay revolutionary , far harder 
time explain obsession spy anti-apartheid activist . 
david gurvitz tell fbi start work fact 
finder adl l.a. march 1989 , adl file already bulge 
information african connection anti- 
apartheid group . 
`` gurvitz confirm adl routinely 
collect information person engage anti-apartheid activity 
united states , '' say fbi report . 
gurvitz say 
file l.a. adl office date 1930s , estimate 
oldest material anti-apartheid activity date back 
late 1970s , parallel begin 's rise power israel 
deepen tie jewish state south africa . 
`` 
august , 1992 , '' say report fbi 's march 3 , 1993 , 
interview gurvitz , `` anti-apartheid demonstration hold 
south african consulate los angeles . 
participate 
demonstration los angeles student coalition socialist 
workers party . 
gurvitz go two demonstration planning session , 
subsequent demonstration . 
write report adl 
planning session demonstration . 
copy 
report disseminate bullock , among , care san 
francisco adl office . '' 
1986 bullock learn consul general south african 
consulate los angeles would speak las vegas meeting 
organize willis carto , head anti-semitic liberty lobby . 
`` suspect consul general know willis carto , '' 
say fbi report , `` bullock suggest gerard might want 
warn south africans . 
gerard agree inform consul 
general , cancel appearance . '' 
month later , gerard phone bullock tell south african 
intelligence officer want meet . 
rendezvous 
hotel near fisherman 's wharf , south african say interested 
acquire information american anti-apartheid activist . 

south african , call mr. humphries , also ask 
information group advocate divestment . 
`` gerard , 
present throughout meeting , '' say fbi report , `` tell 
humphries gerard employ cia ... humphries 
offer pay bullock $ 150.00 per month exchange information . 
bullock note much information humphries say want 
already possession bullock adl . '' 
1987 1991 , bullock sell information south african 
intelligence , receive steady raise , split evenly 
gerard . 
`` bullock say impression , though gerard never 
explicitly tell , bullock never ask gerard may 
tell cia bullock 's contact south 
african , '' say fbi report . 
`` gerard say know cia 
` resident agent ' san francisco ... , gerard drop 
bullock bullock 's residence follow meeting louie 
replace humphries handler , gerard say go go 
san francisco cia office . '' 
al , gerard may `` tasking '' bullock cia . 
`` bullock recall , meet gerard , bullock go 
chicago , illinois conduct investigation behalf adl , '' 
say fbi report . 
`` target investigation group 
call palestine human rights campaign . 
bullock learn 
woman name delete transport money plo 
pflp , united states . 
bullock tell gerard . 
gerard 
later tell bullock gerard 's ` guy cia ' would like know 
. 
gerard ask bullock bullock would go back chicago 
gather information palestine human rights campaign . 
bullock , however , never go back . '' 
gerard also seem close relationship mossad , 
may start 1991 go adl junket israel . 

adl frequently sponsor trip american law enforcement official 
israel , wine dine meet counterpart 
various intelligence agency . 
accord affidavit san 
francisco police inspector roth , `` pay trip 
israel less thank-you gift liaison gesture 
adl continue close relationship specific law 
enforcement officer united states . '' 
gerard may like see israel . 
short time 
travel , go addis ababa help mossad 's 
rescue ethiopian jews . 
gerard 's relationship south africa deepen , talk 
openly exploit cia . 
`` bullock recall gerard 
mention algeria cia business , 
gerard discuss plo ` safehouse , ' '' say fbi report , `` 
louie respond israeli intelligence determine 
plo african national congress cooperate . 
gerard also speak travel cia afghanistan ... 
louie also tell gerard bullock adventure inside south 
africa intelligence officer . 
gerard louie trade ` war 
story ' regale bullock tale ` narrow 
scrape . ' '' 
although still much mystery trigger law 
enforcement 's investigation adl , probably theft 
classified fbi report nation islam fbi 's san 
francisco office . 
police arm search warrant recover 
report adl san francisco office . 
gurvitz say send 
copy mira boland , director adl 's fact finding 
division washington , d.c. boland prepare op-ed piece 
_ washington times _ , argue nation islam 
receive federal fund reconstruction l.a. 
group anti-semitic . 
boland , 
arrange adl police junket israel attend gerard , 
testify 1990 criminal trial roanoke , virginia , 
work cia 14 month later subcontractor 
defense department join adl . 
trial , boland 
admit share information cia official invitation - 
adl conference . 
question fbi last fall , gerard flee 
philippines , extradition treaty america . 
gerard 
believe supply information police computer 
adl , israel south africa well . 
_ san 
francisco examiner _ report gerard may charge violate 
federal espionage law . 
although bullock work adl 30 year , irwin 
praise july 1992 memo `` number one investigator , '' 
adl argue rogue agent . 
defense , adl 
also assert fact finder operate differently 
journalist . 
, ask adl official , journalist keep 
file ? 
difference practice journalism adl 's 
method gather information could striking . 
journalist place information public domain hold 
accountable falsehood , distortion , libel . 

part , journalist share investigative file foreign 
domestic police agency . 
adl inhibition . 
many file open public scrutiny , false 
information collect ideologically bias researcher 
correct . 
proud human rights group , adl become 
jewish thought police . 
`` adl say human rights group jew 
everyone , '' say chip berlet , highly respect researcher 
massachusetts-based political research associates , monitor 
right-wing extremist group . 
`` fine 
spy palestinians . 
blatantly unethical frankly immoral . '' 
`` argument people adl wear four hat . 

hat independently appropriate . 
broad-based human rights 
group look broad issue prejudice discrimination . 
group defend jews defamation . 
entirely noble . 
nothing wrong hat . 
group , whose leader , least , 
consistently defend action israel critic , 
entirely appropriate . 
group maintain 
information-sharing arrangement law enforcement . 
, 
nothing wrong group . '' 
`` four . 
impossible four 
violate bound ethic . 
built-in conflict interest 
wear four hat . '' 
adl national director abraham foxman apparently see conflict . 
september 1 , 1992 , letter _ voice _ , foxman complain : `` adl 
proud 80-year record fight bigotry promote civil 
rights constitutional freedom . 
imputation effort 
motive part smear stifle free speech anyone 
false baseless '' 
`` throughout piece aipac 's spy , friedman describe 
dissemination information slander , existence 
file token mccarthyite inclination . 
depiction 
mislead several way . 
virtually every journalist , academic , 
politician organization keep file subject deem 
relevant ; trace logic friedman 's reckless charge , 
library congress tantamount kgb . 
moreover , disseminate 
public record public figure neither defamation 
mccarthyism . '' 
many believe adl increasingly defamation business . 
ask jesse jackson , james abourezk , leader new jewish 
agenda -- past target adl smear . 
time , adl 
exonerate fascist world anti-communist league , assist 
ronald reagan 's covert war nicaragua , policy endorse adl 
leader . 
early 1980s , researcher russ berlet ask meet 
fact finding head irwin , discuss work anti-semite 
lyndon larouche . 
`` view irwin 
really terrific investigator , '' say berlet . 
`` introduce 
, say lean back chair 
basically run dossier : political 
activity , work , organization belong . 
obviously , try blow away succeed 
admirably . 
sit mouth open feeling 
uncomfortable . '' 
`` lean forward say , ` right-wing 
problem . 
left-wing problem . 
soviet union 
biggest problem world jews . 
american left 
biggest threat american jews . 
wrong track . 
part problem . ' 
stunned . 
virtually 
tear . 
perceive . 
basically stumble 
daze . '' 

letter response friedman 's article 
village voice , may 18 , 1993 , vol . 
xxxviii no. 20 
league 
robert i. friedman 's assault anti-defamation league 
defamation league spy . '' 
may 11 demonstrate 
axe grind prejudiced bias agenda promote . 
also demonstrate concern accurate reporting far 
list . 
story replete inaccuracy , innuendo , 
outright falsehood , convey picture adl divorce 
reality farcical . 
friedman even wrong basic , 
easily determine fact adl found chicago , new 
york building adl 's san francisco office located 
jewish community federation build picture . 
adl work fight hater 80 year , without 
`` spy '' organization individual profound respect 
law . 
mission monitor expose anti- 
jewish , racist , anti-democratic , , monitor 
primarily read publication attend public meeting . 
year , publish score report anti- 
semitism emanate left right . 
fact , 
although friedman 's bias lead assume contrary , adl 's 
primary concern still far right . 
extremist organization highly secretive , sometimes adl 
learn activity use undercover source . 
friedman 's hyperbole notwithstanding , source function 
manner directly analogous investigative journalist . 

perform great service american people -- example , 
uncover existence right-wing extremist paramilitary training 
camp -- recognition considerable personal risk . 

information adl obtain place public domain , 
year adl establish reputation accurate reporting . 
friedman 's article , contrast , contain much misinformation 
would take article equally long set record straight . 
example : state `` adl leader deeply involve 
jonathan pollard israeli spy operation , '' pollard 's 
handler 's wife `` work new york adl lawyer . '' 
true . 
friedman also state : `` adl investigator unmarked van videotape 
palestinian funeral . '' 
true . 
elsewhere , assert adl 
obsess `` spy anti-apartheid activist . '' 
, true . 
could go -- , course , friedman reveal 
source . 
distortion game friedman play mention number 
reveal lack objectivity . 
come much adl pay 
roy bullock week -- independent contractor , employee 
important distinction friedman also fail make -- include 
zero $ 75.00 , $ 150.00 , invite reader see large 
number . 
contrast , observe adl pay bullock `` nearly 
$ 170,000 '' 1985 1993 , choose point 
amount little $ 20,000 year -- hardly excessive sum . 
accurate friedman 's story chip berlet 's description 
adl 's four hat . 
yes , adl look broad issue prejudice 
discrimination . 
yes , adl defend israel critic . 
yes , 
adl maintain information-sharing relationship law enforcement 
regard extremist activity hate crime . 
see conflict 
four activity , believe _ voice _ reader 
either . 
abraham foxman 
national director 
anti-defamation league 
manhattan 

robert i. friedman reply : 
adl compare investigative journalist absurd . 
journalist spy arabs anti-apartheid activist 
freely pass file south african israeli intelligence . 
accord police confession two pay adl investigator , 
buttress 700 page court document interview , adl 
. 
indeed , adl spy group neither anti-semitic 
violent . 
police confiscate adl file hundred mainstream 
group range act peace . 
respect intellectual 
middle east scholar disagree adl 's political view 
end adl blacklist , reputation smear . 
`` private 
organization business pay operative inside police 
department spy , '' say april 17 editorial _ st. 
louis post-dispatch _ , condemn adl spy . 
april 10 , police 
arm search warrant raid adl office san francisco 
l.a. conclude `` adl employee apparently less 
truthful '' voluntarily turn document earlier 
search , accord san francisco police inspector ron roth 's swear 
affidavit . 
roth also assert bullock `` pay employee 
adl . '' 
, fail pay tax $ 170,000 income pay 
bullock , adl could face total 48 felony count , accord 
court papers . 
adl may also face felony charge illegally 
obtain confidential information police computer . 

error : adl found chicago , move new york 
1947 . 
original tenant san francisco building 
show _ voice _ photo , move month ago . 
never 
write `` adl leader deeply involve pollard 
israeli spy operation . '' 
report pollard make 
charge . 
court papers , pollard 's lawyer say wife 
pollard 's handler work adl . 
bias , 
side first fourth amendment . 
