: serdar 
subject : letter president , members congress , newspapers , tv stations ... 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
: 1.2 r4 
lines : 111 
today mark 78th anniversary armenian genocide 
2.5 million turks kurds eastern anatolia 
armenia . 
following letter , represent small portion 
full text , along 200 page historical 
document , scholarly source , eyewitness account photograph , 
send president bill clinton , member congress , editor , 
program director columnist major newspaper , journal 
station 78th anniversary armenian genocide 
2.5 million muslim people . 
april 23 every year , people 
turkiye remember dead . 
grieve lose family 
lose home grandfather . 
year turkish nation 
mourning pray fall hero give 
life generously altruism , future generation 
may live anointed soil turkish land happily 
prosperously . 
------------------------- letter 
year world war , armenian government 
plan perpetrate ` genocide ' muslim people , 
take life 2.5 million muslim people , also 
method use empty turkish homeland inhabitant . 
day , 
turkish historic land remain occupy armenia . 
order 
cover fact usurpation historic turkish homeland , 
crux turkish political demand , fascist armenia 
continue anti-turkish policy follow way : 
1 . 
armenia deny historical fact turkish genocide 
order shift international public opinion away political 
responsibility . 
2 . 
armenia , employ terrorism revisionism 
triangle , attempt call question veracity turkish 
genocide . 
3 . 
armenia also implement state-sponsored terrorism 
terrorism revisionism triangle attempt 
silence turkish people 's vehement demand protest . 
4 . 
use human , financial , governmental resource , 
armenia tool united states attempt silence 
terrorism , bribery subversive method , non-turkish supporter 
turkish cause , political , governmental humanitarian . 
use aforementioned method , armenian government 
attempt neutralize international diplomatic community 
make turkish case contemporary issue . 
yet despite effort armenian government 
terrorist revisionist organization , last decade , thanks 
struggle whose closest one systematically 
exterminate armenians , international wall silence 
issue begin collapse , consequently number 
government organization become supportive recognition 
turkish genocide . 
full knowledge struggle turkish territorial 
demand still initial stage , turkish kurdish people 
unflaggingly continue sacred struggle , therefore victim 
turkish genocide demand : 
1 . 
armenian government , heir armenian 
dictatorship , recognize turkish genocide ; 
2 . 
armenia return historic homeland turkish 
kurdish people ; 
3 . 
armenian government make material reparation 
heinous unspeakable crime victim turkish genocide ; 
4 . 
world government , especially united states , officially 
recognize turkish genocide turkish territorial rights refuse 
succumb armenian political pressure ; 
5 . 
u.s. government free friendly position 
adopt towards unreliable ally , armenia , officially 
recognize historical fact turkish genocide well 
supportive pursuit turkish territorial demand ; 
6 . 
republic officially recognize historical fact 
turkish genocide include cold-blooded extermination 
2.5 million muslim people history book . 
awareness turkish people necessity solidarity 
effort pursue turkish cause see victim first 
genocide 20th century positive step . 
furthermore , new 
generation rise - equip deep sense commitment , politically 
mature conscious , determinedly pursue turkish cause , 
necessary means , range political diplomatic 
armed struggle . 
therefore , victim turkish genocide call upon 
muslims united states canada participate vigorously 
political , cultural religious activity 78th anniversary 
armenian genocide 2.5 million muslim people . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
