: lee lady 
subject : re : science methodology : homeopathy ... tradition ? 
summary : subjective judgement reliable statistics ? 
organization : university hawaii mathematics dept 
expire : mon , 10 may 1993 gmt 
lines : 76 
article < > 
russell turpin write : 
> ... 
> imply treatment ineffective . 

> imply rely faulty methodology reasoning 
> incapable discover treatment effective 
> . 
start , methodology form reasoning infallible . 

question much certainty willing pay 
give context . 
insistence much rigor bog science completely 
make progress impossible . 
expenditure sufficiently large sum 
money amount time sometimes overcome . 

hand , little rigor much lose base work result 
eventually turn false . 
morass study 
contradict study outsider start say `` people call 
science ? '' 
opinion , worth , one see 
phenomenon happen simultaneously part psychology . 
subjective judgement require decide level rigor 
appropriate particular investigation . 
believe 
ever possible banish subjective judgement science . 
second point , though , highly capable people often make 
extremely reliable judgement scientific validity even use 
methodology consider inadequate usual standard . 
think 
true many scientist think true many approach 
discipline way generally recognize scientific . 
within mathematics , think several example , especially 
twentieth century . 
one conspicuous case riemann , 
famous many theorem state prove . 
later 
mathematician prove , course . 
think good scientist , empirical investigation often 
much matter determine true 
matter convince people . 
people propose lot 
incompatible definition science , think ability 
objectively convince validity one 's result 
essential element . 
one necessarily every step 
scientific process , think one move toward 
goal one science . 
person scientist quite good 
seem successful , think judgement also 
worthy respect assertion well worth 
investigation . 
article < > write : 
> namely , really justification belief 
> science superior path truth non-scientific approach ? 
admittedly , question well pose . 
considerable 
amount effort `` serious scholarly investigation '' 
suggest would require simply formulate appropriately 
specific question try answer . 
`` science '' think question actual science 
currently practice last decade twentieth century . 
certainly think idealized science mere use 
`` reason observation . '' 
one thing mind suggestion question whether 
many case subjective judgement skilled experienced 
practitioner might reliable statistical study . 
since russell turpin seem much familiar 
study scientific methodology , perhaps tell 
exist research related question . 
-- 
argument behaviorist , psychology seem 
less like science collection compete religious sect . 

