: nigel allen 
subject : reserve officer say demographic ignore nomination close naval , marine reserve center 
organization : public access unix - 1 
lines : 53 
press release reserve officers association . 
reserve officers say demographic ignore nomination 
close naval , marine reserve centers 
: national desk , defense writer 
contact : herbert m. hart reserve officers association 
united states , 
washington , april 13 u.s. newswire -- reserve officers 
association united states alert defense base 
realignment closure commission service fail give 
sufficient weight demographic recommendation make close 
56 naval marine corps reserve center . 
letter closure commission 86 member 
congress affected location constituency , include 
sen. sam nunn . 
, chairman senate armed services 
committee , roa charge developer navy-marine list 
ignore demographic civilian population , particularly prior 
service personnel . 
roa 's executive director , maj. gen. evan l. hultman , aus ret . 
, 
suggest `` concern plausible alternative 
intentionally attempt foreclose naval reserve 
component maintain even today 's relatively low level 
participation parent service 's total force future . '' 
ask commission `` remove consideration 
location without sufficient convincing demographic datum 
warrant approval request action . '' 
`` 56 naval marine corps reserve 
installation list large enough significant 
impact community , close , '' write hultman . 
`` major 
issue cumulative impact move close large 
percentage exist location . '' 
hultman remind commission , `` fact vast 
majority reserve installation list come 
close meet minimal requirement consideration 
process certainly support thesis '' action 
simply attempt foreclose substantial role navy 
marine corps reserve . 
roa also note `` end 1960 , number 
naval reservists approximately today , 480 
naval reserve facility . 
navy recommendation 
approve , less 200 naval reserve facility . '' 
facilities list include seven naval air stations range 
south weymouth , mass. , alameda , calif. , 28 naval 
reserve centers macon , ga. , parkersburg , w.va. , 
missoula great falls . 
mont. . 
corps reserve 
centers include four san francisco , fort wayne , ind. , 
billing , mont. , abilene , texas . 
major marine reserve center list el 
toro , calif. , plus six . 
-30 - 
-- 
nigel allen , toronto , ontario , canada 
