: l. detweiler 
subject : open letter mr. clinton 
: 
organization : colorado state university , fort collins , co 
lines : 123 
quite astonished , shocked , serious frontal 
assault emerge american freedom . 
clinton administration 
government agency legitimate role whatsoever 
regulate cryptography . 
tantamount regulate 
` acceptable ' speech , blatantly unconstitutional . 
perhaps 
rename year ` 1984 ' honor illustrious 
proposal . 
let crappy chip live infamy , adminstration 
receive great shame discredit bizarre misadventure . 
outraged tax money use develop technology 
restrict freedom far beyond reasonable measure . 
u.s. 
government full disobedience 
serious threat liberty , call everyone 
interest sensible government resist defy 
proposal . 
administration seem understand 
merely subservient instrument implement 
public , hence anyone involve proposal respect 
wholly negligent remiss perform lawful duty . 
> encryption 
> technology help americans protect business secret 
> unauthorized release personal information , also use 
> terrorist , drug dealer , criminal . 
seem u.s. diplomatic communication 
u.n. whenever country produce warrant 
u.n. . 
fact , think stop pay nsa billion 
dollar year produce unbreakable code reason . 
action violate sovereignity international law . 
hope 
mr. clinton shrewd enough recognize sarcasm satire . 
, modest reasonable proposal , 
find merit nevertheless . 
cryptography neutral technology . 
everybody strong 
cryptography include policeman , , businessman , 
housewife , thug hoodlum , sustainable 
equilibrium . 
anything less unworkable 
arrangement , intrinsically antithetical american freedom , 
guarantee collapse weight inherent 
impracticality . 
need compromise issue freedom . 
> long little dialogue 
> private sector law enforcement community resolve 
> tension economic vitality real challenge 
> protect americans . 
long government demonstrate 
increasingly hostile serious obstacle economic vitality 
protect americans . 
> since encryption technology play increasingly important 
> role infrastructure , federal government must act 
> quickly develop consistent , comprehensive policy regard 
> use . 
administration commit policy 
> protect americans ' right privacy also protect 
> break law . 
possible federal government 
`` act quickly '' develop `` consistent , comprehensive 
policy '' period . 
even grandiose miracle 
thing possible , would efficient way 
deprive american citizen fundamental inalienable rights . 
administration commit leave private 
industry alone , esp . 
issue . 
government 
legitimate role regulate content communication . 
law enforcement agency must prepare forfeit 
surveillance bludgeon ; soon inevitably 
disarm . 
> q : administration unable find technological 
> solution like one propose , would administration 
> willing use legal remedy restrict access 
> powerful encryption device ? 
law constitutionally sound , equivalent 
veil threat , appreciate . 
kind 
extortion tend agitate radicalism . 

trade threat threat , violation violation . 
> administration say , `` since encryption 
> threaten public safety effective law enforcement , 
> prohibit outright '' country 
> effectively ; 
administration say , would find 
impeach reckless outrageous disregard essential , 
establish , entrench , explicit constitutional privacy 
guarantee . 
administration would legal standing 
whatsoever ; action would egregiously illegal 
criminal , wholly disregard vast 
segment population . 
> u.s. say `` every 
> american , matter right , entitle 
> unbreakable commercial encryption product . '' 
u.s. , comprise vast majority people fanatically 
commit preserve privacy face 
increasingly totalitarian government , say . 
take chip give nsa employee christmas bonus . 
run algorithm computer damn well please , 
make chip please , send bit 
pattern datum highway please . 
try stop 
, gradually abruptly dissolve nothingness . 
privacy vs. law enforcement 
> 
> false `` tension '' create assessment issue 
> `` '' proposition . 
outright denning lie . 
two aim 
privacy surveillance intrinsically fundamentally 
incompatible , work nsa think otherwise . 
americans discover way , use technology , 
preserve inalienable forget freedom slowly 
erode away increasingly distant unresponsive 
unrepresentative government . 
-- 

