: serdar 
subject : muslim left alive - single one : historical armenian barbarism . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 326 
article < > paul halsall write : 
> simple question serdar ? 
anytime . 
> armenians kill many turks eastern anatolia , 
> come area today full turks muslim kurds 
> full armenians ? 
suffer severe case myopia ? 
muslim left alive - 
single one . 
lead first armenian unit cross ottoman 
border company russian invader former ottoman 
parliamentary representative erzurum , karekin , 
assume revolutionary name armen garo . 
another former ottoman 
parliamentarian , , lead armenian guerrilla force 
ravage turkish village behind line nickname `` murad '' , 
especially order 
` kill turks kurds wherever find 
whatever circumstance find . 
turkish child 
also kill form danger 
armenian nation . ' 
- 1914 1 
1 m. , `` history , '' p. 85 . 
another former member parliament , , lead armenian 
guerrilla force ravage area van , bitlis mush . 
march 1915 , russian force begin move toward van . 
immediately , 
april 11 , 1915 armenians van begin revolt , massacre 
turks vicinity make possible quick easy 
conquest russians . 
little wonder czar nicholas ii send 
telegram thanks armenian revolutionary committee van 
april 21 , 1915 , `` thank service russia . '' 
armenian 
newspaper , publish united states , also proudly 
report may 24 , 1915 
`` 1,500 turks remain van rest slaughter . '' 
source : hovannisian , richard g. : armenia road independence , 1918 . 
university california press berkeley los angeles , 1967 , p. 13 . 
`` addition kars batum oblast empire increase 
area transcaucasia 130,000 square mile . 
estimate population 
entire region 1886 , 940,000 20 percent 
armenian , 1,200,000 25 percent georgian , 45 percent moslem . 
latter group , tatars . 
paradoxically , barely one-third 
transcaucasia 's armenians live erevan , 
christian constitute majority three seven . 
erevan 
, administrative center province , 44,000 armenians 
compare 68,000 moslems . 
time russian census 1897 , 
however , armenians establish scant majority , 53 percent , 
; rise 1916 60 percent , 670,000 
inhabitant . 
impressive change province 's ethnic character 
notwithstanding , , eve creation armenian 
republic , solid block 370,000 tartars continue dominate 
southern district , outskirts border persia . '' 
see also map 1 . 
historic armenia map 4 . 
administrative subdivision 
transcaucasia . 
1920 , ' 0 ' percent turk . 
`` close road mountain pass might serve 
way escape tartars proceed work 
extermination . 
troops surround village village . 
little resistance offer . 
artillery knock hut 
heap stone dust village become untenable 
inhabitant flee field , bullet bayonet 
complete work . 
tartars escape course . 

find refuge mountain succeed cross border 
turkey . 
rest kill . 
whole 
length borderland russian armenia 
akhalkalaki hot plain ararat cold mountain 
plateau north dot mute mournful ruin 
tartar village . 
quiet , village , except 
howl wolf jackal visit paw 
scatter bone dead . '' 

`` man like '' 
p. 202 . 
source : stanford j. shaw , armenian collaboration invade russian 
army 1914 , `` history ottoman empire modern turkey volume 
ii : reform , revolution & republic : rise modern turkey , . '' 
london , cambridge university press 1977 . 
p. . 
`` april 1915 dashnaks russian armenia organize revolt city 
van , whose armenians comprise 42.3 percent population , 
closest armenian majority city empire ... leave erivan 
april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteer reach van may 14 organize 
carry general slaughter local muslim population 
next two day small ottoman garrison retreat 
southern side lake . '' 
`` know number would never justify territorial ambition , 
armenians look russia europe fulfillment aim . 
armenian treachery regard culminate beginning first 
world war decision revolutionary organization refuse 
serve state , ottoman empire , assist instead 
invade russian army . 
hope participation russian 
success would reward independent armenian state carve 
ottoman territory . 
armenian political leader , army officer , common 
soldier begin desert drove . '' 
`` russian invasion eastern anatolia 1914 beginning 
world war , degree armenian collaboration ottoman 's enemy 
increase drastically . 
ottoman supply line cut guerilla attack , 
armenian revolutionary arm armenian civil population , turn 
massacre muslim population province van anticipation 
expect arrival invade russian army . '' 
source : stanford j. shaw , `` history ottoman empire modern turkey , '' 
vol ii . 
cambridge university press , london , 1979 , p. . 
'' ... meanwhile , czar nicholas ii come caucasus make final 
plan cooperation armenians ottomans , 
president armenian national bureau tiflis declare response : 
` country armenians hurry enter rank 
glorious russian army , blood serve victory russian 
arm ... let russian flag wave freely dardanelles 
bosporus . 
let , , great majesty , people remain 
turkish yoke receive freedom . 
let armenian people turkey 
suffer faith christ receive resurrection new 
free life protection russia . ' 
155 
armenians flood czarist army . 
preparation make 
strike ottomans rear , czar return st. petersburg 
confident day finally come reach istanbul . '' 
155 horizon , tiflis , november 30 , 1914 , quote hovannisian , `` road 
independence , '' p. 45 ; fo , , . 
`` ottoman morale military position east seriously hurt , 
way prepare new russian push eastern anatolia , 
accompany open armenian revolt sultan . 
156 '' 
156 hovannisian , `` road independence , '' p. 45-47 ; , , 
p. ; allen p. , `` caucasian battlefield , '' 
cambridge , 1953 , p. ; ali ihsan sabis , `` harb , '' 2 vol. , 
ankara , 1951 , ii , ; fo 2146 no. ; fo ; fo , . 
. 
`` armenian state organize van russian protection , 
appear muslim native dead drive away , might 
able maintain one oldest center ancient armenian 
civilization . 
armenian legion organize ` expel turks 
entire southern shore lake preparation concerted 
russian drive bitlis vilayet . ' 
162 thousand armenians 
mu major center east begin flood new 
armenian state ... mid-july many 250,000 armenians 
crowd van area , crisis house feed 
50,000 people , muslim non-muslim alike . 
163 '' 
162 hovannisian , `` road independence , '' p. 56 ; fop , nos. 
. 
163 bva , , debate august 15-17 , 1915 ; 
ali , no. 175 , 321 , `` van ve ami , '' 
september 1915 . 
wait , . 
`` diplomacy imperialism , '' william l. langer , new york alfred a. 
knopf , 1960 , p. . 
`` armenians watch opportunity kill turks kurds , set fire 
village , make escape mountain . '' 
> also , since ottomans great , come 
> armenians count part rum millet , i.e. force 
> control greek orthodox patriarchate ? 
people real ? 
main legal principle turkish state 
summarize article 2 constitution : 
`` republic turkey democratic , secular social state 
govern rule law ; bearing mind concept public 
peace , national solidarity justice ; respect human rights ; 
loyal nationalism ataturk , base fundamental 
tenet set forth preamble constitution . '' 
freedom culture religion prevail ottoman empire , allow 
many nation race within boundary remain autonomous . 

fact ottoman empire longest live recent history may 
attribute freedom , despite lack write constitution . 
first attempt create write constitution occur 1839 1856 . 
although document adopt two attempt remain force 
temporarily , provide basic element constitution . 
1876 constitution first legal document force parliament 
right election share sovereignty emperor . 
constitution 
1906 place additional limitation emperor , increase 
power parliament government . 
first world war 1914-1918 bring ottoman empire end . 

occupation istanbul , parliament dissolve constitution 
abolish . 
member parliament send exile island 
occupy force . 
independence war , `` turkish grand national assembly '' hold 
first meeting april 23 , 1920 serve legislative body new 
turkish state . 
assembly prepare new legal structure turkish 
republic . 
new republic proclaim october 29 , 1923 new 
constitution adopt 1924 . 
constitution serve legal 
backbone today 's modern turkish republic . 
1945 , turkey adopt 
multi-party political system . 
constitution 1924 replace 
1961 1982 . 
three constitution republic 
base principle parliamentary democracy , human rights , national 
sovereignty , division power , private ownership secularization . 
`` major principle constitution '' 
constitution 177 articles establish structure republic 
within follow principle : 
- turkish republic democratic , secular social state govern 
law ; 
- govern maintain public peace , national solidarity , justice , 
human rights objective ataturk ; 
- language state turkish ; 
- sovereignty vest nation without condition restriction . 
sovereignty exercise organization authorize nation ; 
- legislative power carry parliament elect nation . 

power delegate transfer one else ; 
- executive power exercise president , council ministers ; 
- judicial power exercise independent court behalf 
turkish nation ; 
- individual equal , irrespective language , race , religion , color , 
sex , political belief ; 
- law contradict principle state constitution . 
`` structure state '' 
accordance constitution , structure state base 
principle `` division power '' create balanced 
system . 
power divide `` legislative power , '' `` executive power , '' 
`` judicial power , '' balance secure freedom power control 
self-control . 
a. legislative power : 
`` turkish grand national assembly '' parliament one house , elect 
nation term five year exercise legislative power 
behalf nation . 
basic function assembly : 
- adopt , amend , repeal law ; 
- approve dismiss council ministers ; 
- supervise question ministers council ministers ; 
- debate , amend approve annual budget ; 
- ratify international agreement ; 
- grant amnesty pardon . 
member parliament liability word either oral 
write course legislative duty . 
country 
divide constituency . 
number representative 
calculate accord population . 
every turkish citizen age 
twenty-one vote . 
election supervise `` supreme council elections , '' solve 
dispute appeal . 
province , local `` board election '' 
run control election supervision guideline 
supreme council . 
member council board elect among 
independent judge . 
b. executive power : 
president republic head state head government 
unites states . 
main function president : 
- represent state country ; 
- insure implementation constitution ; 
- coordinate legislative , judicial executive function ; 
- act supreme commander armed forces ; 
- ratify law government decree . 
president elect grand national assembly period seven 
year . 
president may ratify return law second debate , may 
call referendum . 
executive power exercise `` council ministers , '' head 
prime minister . 
prime minister appoint president 
member parliament . 
prime minister name ministers approval 
president . 
new government council ministers read 
program parliament vote confidence follow . 
21 ? 
ministers council . 
ministers member administration sue independent 
`` administrative '' court misuse power , administrative error 
function law . 
c. judicial power : 
judicial power exercise independent court . 
authority power 
instruct judge public prosecutor court . 

discharge , replace retire executive authority except 
reason clearly state appropriate law . 
three category 
court turkish judiciary system : 
- court justice deal legal , commercial criminal case . 

decision court may review supreme court justice 
upon appeal party involve . 
- decision function executive power include prime 
minister ministers governmental department appeal 
administrative court function decision law . 
decision administrative court may also review 
high administrative court . 
law decision grand national assembly examine 
`` constitutional court '' contradict constitution . 
find 
contradictory , court may cancel decision law parliament . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
