: center policy research < > 
subject : assistance 
: : cdp 
: apr 24 1993 
lines : 78 
: center policy research 
subject : assistance 
u.n. general assembly resolution 20 december 1991 
assistance palestinian people 

general assembly 
recall resolution 21 december 1990 
take account intifadah palestinian people 
occupy palestinian territory israeli occupation , 
include israeli economic social policy practice , 
reject israeli restriction external economic social 
assistance palestinian people occupied palestinian 
territory , 
concerned economic loss palestinian people 
result gulf crisis , 
aware increase need provide economic social 
assistance palestinian people , 
affirm palestinian people develop 
national economy long israeli occupation persist , 
1 . 
take note report secretary-general assistance 
palestinian people ; 
2 . 
express appreciation states , united nations body 
intergovernmental non-governmental organization 
provide assistance palestinian people , 
3 . 
request international community , united nations system 
intergovernmental non-governmental organization 
sustain increase assistance palestinian people , 
close cooperation palestine liberation organization 
plo , take account economic loss palestinian 
people result gulf crisis ; 
4 . 
call treatment transit basis palestinian export 
import pass neighbouring port point exit 
entry ; 
5 . 
also call grant trade concession concrete 
preferential measure palestinian export basis 
palestinian certificate origin ; 
6 . 
call immediate lifting israeli restriction 
obstacle hinder implementation assistance project 
united nations development programme , united nations 
body provide economic social assistance 
palestinian people occupied palestinian territory ; 
7 . 
reiterate call implementation development 
project occupied palestinian territory , include 
project mention resolution 18 december 1984 ; 
8 . 
call facilitation establishment palestinian 
development bank occupied palestinian territory , 
view promote investment , production , employment income 
therein ; 
9 . 
request secretary-general report general 
general assembly 47th session , economic social 
council , progress make implementation present 
resolution . 
----------------------------------------------- 
favor 137 country europe , canada , australia , new zealand , 
japan , africa , south america , central america asia : 
united states israel abstaining : none 
