: `` tricia porth 202 '' 
subject : remote sensing data 
: forward space digest 
: parse error original version precede line 
organization : via international space university 
: 
distribution : sci 
lines : 137 

post someone else . 
please respond 
address list . 
please also excuse duplication 
message . 
thanks ! 

request idea application remote sense database 
via internet 
nasa plan expand domain user earth space science 
datum . 
effort : 
o use evolve infrastructure u.s. global change research 
program include mission planet earth earth 
observe system data information system programs . 
o use internet , particularly high performance computing 
communications program 's national research education 
network , means provide access distribution 
science datum image value add product . 
o provide broad access utilization remotely sense image 
cooperation agency especially noaa , epa , doe , ded , 
, usda . 
o support remote sense image datum user development 
community . 
user development community include limit 
part effort educator , commercial application developer e.g. , 
television weather forecaster , librarian , publisher , agriculture 
specialist , transportation , forestry , state local government planner , 
aqua business . 
program initiate 1994 . 
assistance request 
identify potential application remote sense image datum . 
would 
like idea potential application area assist development 
implementation plan . 
please note : request proposal . 
seek idea area : 
1 potential commercial use remote sense datum image ; 
2 potential noncommercial use remote sense datum image 
education especially level k-12 noncommercial area ; 
3 type on-line capability protocol make datum 
accessible ; 
4 additional point contact idea ; 
5 address name request proposal . 
convenience , standard format response include . 
feel 
free amend necessary . 
either e-mail fax response 
may 5 , 1993 . 
e-mail : internet `` '' ascii - binary 
attachment please 
fax : ernie lucier , , nasa hq , fax 
survey response follow format may also place ftp 
directory ~ . 
please indicate format . 
acceptable format : word windows 2 . 
x , macintosh word 4 . 
x 5 . 
x , 
rtf . 
---------------------------- response format -------------------------- 
request idea application remote sense database via internet 
1 potential commercial use remote sense datum image possible , 
identify relevant type datum science product , user tool , 
standard . 
2 use remote sense datum image education especially level 
k-12 noncommercial area possible , identify relevant type 
datum science product , user tool , standard . 
3 type on-line capability protocol make datum image 
accessible possible , identify relevant type format , standard , 
user tool 
4 additional suggest person organization may resource 
idea application area . 
please include : name , organization , 
address telephone number . 
5 organizations , mail list electronic paper , periodical , etc. 
solicitation proposal send develop . 
please 
include : name , organization , address telephone number . 
6 would benefit know user know nasa remote 
sense datum use datum . 
tie nasa 
investigator , high cost , lack accessibility , incompatible datum format , 
poor area interest coverage , inadequate spatial spectral resolution , ... ? 
7 case question , please send name , address , phone number 
e-mail address one . 
wish send 
information , feel free respond survey anonymously . 
thank 
assistance . 
