: david 
subject : medical news part 
: david 
distribution : world 
organization : stat gateway service , 
lines : 708 
------------- cut ----------------- 
university arizona 
tucson , arizona 
suggest read 
tan sl , royston p , campbell , jacobs h , betts j , mason b , edwards rg 1992 . 
cumulative conception rate in-vitro fertilization . 
lancet 
. 
information , call : 
physicians ' resource line 

tucson : 

medical newsletter page 28 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
articles 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
low levels airborne particles link 
serious asthma attack 
american lung association 
new study publish american lung association show 
surprisingly low concentration airborne particle send people 
asthma rush emergency room treatment . 
seattle-based study show roughly one eight emergency visit 
asthma city link exposure particulate air pollution . 
actual exposure level record study far deem 
unsafe federal air quality law . 
`` people asthma inflamed airway , airborne particle tend 
exacerbate inflammation , '' say joel schwartz , ph.d. , environmental 
protection agency , lead author study . 
`` people 
threshold , serious asthma attack , particle push 
edge . '' 
seattle study correlate 13 month asthma emergency room visit 
daily level pm , , , . 
particulate matter aerodynamic diameter 
10 micron less . 
finer particle consider hazardous 
small enough penetrate lung . 
city consider 
compliance clean air law 24-hour average concentration pm10 
exceed 150 microgram per cubic millimeter air . 
seattle however , link fine particle asthma find 
level low 30 microgram . 
author conclude every 30 
microgram increase four-day average pm10 , odds someone 
asthma need emergency treatment increase 12 percent . 
finding publish april american review respiratory 
disease , official journal american thoracic society , lung 
association 's medical section . 
study latest series recent report suggest 
particulate matter greatly appreciate health threat . 
1992 study 
dr. schwartz douglas dockery , ph.d. , harvard find particle 
may cause roughly 60,000 premature death year united states . 
study link particulate matter increase respiratory symptom 
bronchitis child . 
`` government official media still focus ozone , '' 
say dr. schwartz . 
`` research show particle 
bad actor well . '' 
one problem setting , standard particulate 
air pollution difficult study . 
unlike regulate 
pollutant ozone carbon monoxide , particulate matter complex 
vary mixture substance , include carbon , hydrocarbon , dust , 
medical newsletter page 29 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
acid aerosol . 
`` researcher put people exposure chamber study effect 
particulate air pollution , '' say dr. schwartz . 
`` way 
duplicate typical urban mix particle . '' 
consequently , 
know particulate learn population-based research 
like seattle study . 
give epa 's current priority review ozone sulfur 
dioxide standard , agency unlikely reexamine pm10 standard 
time soon . 
change make , appear little people 
asthma protect airborne particle . 
`` area , get report air quality , report 
cover pollutant closest violate standard , 
rarely particulate matter , '' say dr. schwartz . 
`` however , pm10 
near violation range unhealthy . '' 
medical newsletter page 30 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
nih consensus development conference melanoma 
national institutes health consensus development conference 
diagnosis treatment early melanoma bring together expert 
dermatology , pathology , epidemiology , public education , surveillance 
technique , potential new technology well health care 
professional public address 1 clinical histological 
characteristic early melanoma ; 2 appropriate diagnosis , management , 
followup patient early melanoma ; 3 role dysplastic nevus 
significance ; 4 role education screening 
prevent melanoma morbidity mortality . 
follow 2 day 
presentation expert discussion audience , consensus panel 
weigh scientific evidence prepare consensus statement . 
among finding , panel recommend 1 melanoma situ 
distinct entity effectively treat surgically 0.5 centimeter margin ; 
2 thin invasive melanoma , less 1 millimeter thick , potential 
long-term survival 90 percent patient surgical 
excision 1 centimeter margin ; 3 elective lymph node dissection 
extensive staging evaluation recommend early melanoma ; 4 
patient early melanoma low risk relapse may high 
risk development subsequent melanoma follow closely ; 
5 family member patient melanoma increase risk 
melanoma enrol surveillance program ; 6 education 
screening program potential decrease morbidity mortality 
melanoma . 
copy full text consensus panel 's statement available 
call nih office medical application research 
write : office medical application research , national 
institutes health , federal building , room 618 , bethesda , md . 
medical newsletter page 31 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
cancer centers 
cancer centers program comprise 55 cancer centers 
actively engage multidisciplinary research effort reduce cancer 
incidence , morbidity , mortality . 
within program , four type 
cancer center : basic science cancer center 14 , engage primarily 
basic cancer research ; clinical cancer center 12 , focus 
clinical research ; `` comprehensive '' cancer center 28 , emphasize 
multidisciplinary approach cancer research , patient care , community 
outreach ; consortium cancer center 1 , specialize cancer 
prevention control research . 
although cancer center exist late 1960 1970 , 
national cancer act 1971 authorize establishment 15 new 
cancer center , well continue support exist one . 
passage 
act also dramatically transform center ' structure broaden 
scope mission include aspect basic , clinical , 
cancer control research . 
next two decade , center ' program grow 
progressively . 
1990 , 19 comprehensive cancer center nation . 
today , 
28 institution , meet specific criterion 
comprehensive status . 
attain recognition comprehensive cancer center , 
institution must pass rigorous peer review . 
guideline newly 
establish 1990 , eight criterion `` comprehensiveness '' include 
requirement center strong core basic laboratory research 
several scientific field , biology molecular genetics , strong 
program clinical research , ability transfer research finding 
clinical practice . 
moreover , five criterion comprehensive status go significantly 
beyond require attain cancer center support grant also 
refer p30 core grant , mechanism choice support 
infrastructure cancer center 's operation . 
criterion encompass 
strong participation high-priority clinical trial , 
significant level cancer prevention control research , important 
outreach educational activity -- fund variety 
source . 
type cancer center also special characteristic 
capability organize new program research exploit 
important new finding address timely research question . 
medical newsletter page 32 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
55 cancer centers , 14 basic science type . 
center engage almost entirely basic research , although center 
engage collaborative research outside clinical research investigator 
cooperative project industry generate medical application 
new discovery laboratory . 
clinical cancer center , contrast , focus basic research 
clinical research within institutional framework , frequently 
incorporate nearby affiliate clinical research institution 
overall research program . 
12 center today . 
finally , consortium cancer center , one , uniquely 
structured concentrate clinical research cancer prevention 
control research . 
center interface state local public health 
department purpose achieve transfer effective prevention 
control technique research finding institution 
responsible implement public health program . 
consortium center also heavily engage collaboration 
institution conduct clinical trial research coordinate community 
hospital within network cooperate institution clinical trial . 
together , 55 cancer centers continue work toward 
create new innovative approach cancer research , 
interdisciplinary effort , effectively move research 
laboratory clinical trial clinical practice . 
comprehensive cancer centers internet address give available 
university alabama birmingham comprehensive cancer center 
basic health sciences building , room 108 
1918 university boulevard 
birmingham , alabama 

university arizona cancer center 
1501 north campbell avenue 
tucson , arizona 

internet : 
jonsson comprehensive cancer center 
university california los angeles 
200 medical plaza 
los angeles , california 

medical newsletter page 33 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
internet : 
kenneth t. norris jr. . 
comprehensive cancer center 
university southern california 
1441 eastlake avenue 
los angeles , california 

yale university comprehensive cancer center 
333 cedar street 
new haven , connecticut 

lombardi cancer research center 
georgetown university medical center 
3800 reservoir road , n.w. 
washington , d.c. 

sylvester comprehensive cancer center 
university miami medical school 
1475 northwest 12th avenue 
miami , florida 

internet : 
johns hopkins oncology center 
600 north wolfe street 
baltimore , maryland 

dana-farber cancer institute 
44 binney street 
boston , massachusetts 

internet : 
meyer l. prentis comprehensive cancer center metropolitan 
detroit 
110 east warren avenue 
detroit , michigan 

internet : 
university michigan cancer center 
medical newsletter page 34 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
101 simpson drive 
ann arbor , michigan 

bitnet : 
mayo comprehensive cancer center 
200 first street southwest 
rochester , minnesota 

norris cotton cancer center 
medical center 
one medical center drive 
lebanon , new hampshire 

bitnet : 
roswell park cancer institute 
elm carlton streets 
buffalo , new york 

columbia university comprehensive cancer center 
college physicians surgeons 
630 west 168th street 
new york , new york 

internet : 
memorial sloan-kettering cancer center 
1275 york avenue 
new york , new york 10021 

kaplan cancer center 
new york university medical center 
462 first avenue 
new york , new york 

unc lineberger comprehensive cancer center 
university north carolina school medicine 
chapel hill , north carolina 

medical newsletter page 35 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
duke comprehensive cancer center 
p.o. box 
durham , north carolina 

cancer center wake forest university bowman gray school 
medicine 
300 south hawthorne road 
winston-salem , north carolina 

internet : 
ohio state university comprehensive cancer center 
300 west 10th avenue 
columbus , ohio 

internet : 
fox chase cancer center 
avenue 
philadelphia , pennsylvania 

internet : 
university pennsylvania cancer center 
3400 spruce street 
philadelphia , pennsylvania 

pittsburgh cancer institute 
200 avenue 
pittsburgh , pennsylvania 

university texas m.d. anderson cancer center 
1515 holcombe boulevard 
houston , texas 

vermont cancer center 
university vermont 
1 south prospect street 
burlington , vermont 

medical newsletter page 36 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
fred hutchinson cancer research center 
1124 columbia street 
seattle , washington 

internet : 
university wisconsin comprehensive cancer center 
600 highland avenue 
madison , wisconsin 

bitnet : 
clinical cancer centers 
university california san diego cancer center 
225 dickinson street 
san diego , california 

internet : 
city hope national medical center 
beckman research institute 
1500 east duarte road 
duarte , california 
ext. 
university colorado cancer center 
4200 east 9th avenue , box 
denver , colorado 

university chicago cancer research center 
south maryland avenue , box 444 
chicago , illinois 

internet : 
albert einstein college medicine 
1300 morris park avenue 
bronx , new york 

medical newsletter page 37 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
university rochester cancer center 
601 elmwood avenue , box 704 
rochester , new york 

internet : 
ireland cancer center case western reserve university 
university hospitals cleveland 
2074 abington road 
cleveland , ohio 

roger williams cancer center 
brown university 
825 avenue 
providence , rhode island 

st. jude children 's research hospital 
332 north lauderdale street 
memphis , tennessee 

internet : 
institute cancer research care 
4450 medical drive 
san antonio , texas 

utah regional cancer center 
university utah health sciences center 
50 north medical drive , room 
salt lake city , utah 

bitnet : 
massey cancer center 
medical college virginia 
virginia commonwealth university 
1200 east broad street 
richmond , virginia 

consortium 
medical newsletter page 38 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
consortium cancer center 
1005 d.b. todd boulevard 
nashville , tennessee 

medical newsletter page 39 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
general 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
uci medical education software repository 
announce establishment ftp site university 
california , collection shareware , public-domain software 
information relate medical education . 
specifically , interested establish site clearinghouse 
personally develop software develop local medical 
education program . 
welcome contribution may share 
user . 
connect uci medical education software repository , ftp : 

repository currently offer macintosh software , hope 
support operate system unix , mumps , amiga ? 
. 
upload welcome . 
actively solicit information software 
develop find useful local medical education 
effort , either instructor student . 
connect site via ftp , cd change directory either 
directory , change 
mode binary `` send '' `` put '' file . 
note able 
see file `` l '' `` dir '' command . 
please compress file 
appropriate operating system zip ; compactor something 
similar macintosh save disk space . 
upload , please send email steve clancy 
albert mac describe file 
upload information might need describe . 
note accept software information designate 
shareware , public-domain may otherwise distribute freely . 
please upload commercial software ! 
may jeopardize 
existence ftp site . 
wish upload software operate system , please contact 
either steve clancy , albert , m.d. address . 
medical newsletter page 40 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
aids news summaries 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
aids daily summary 
centers disease control prevention cdc national aids 
clearinghouse make available follow information public service 
. 
provide information constitute endorsement cdc , 
cdc clearinghouse , organization . 
reproduction text 
encourage ; however , copy may sell . 
copyright 1993 , information , 
inc. , bethesda , md 

april 12 , 1993 

`` nih set test multiple aid vaccine '' reuters frank , 
jacqueline 
washington -- clinton administration permit national 
institutes health test multiple aid vaccine instead allow 
army test single vaccine , administration source say thursday . 

decision end controversy army aids researcher hope 
test vaccine make inc. national institutes 
health , contend multiple vaccine test . 
health 
human services secretary donna shalala say final announcement 
therapeutic vaccine trial expect make last friday . 
company 
include genentech inc. , chiron corp. , immuno ag already tell nih 
prepare participate vaccine test . 
testing 
intend demonstrate whether aids vaccine effective thwart 
replication hiv patient already infect . 
shalala refute last week 's 
report clinton administration decide army 's test 
proceed without test time . 
`` report inaccurate , expect announcement 
next 24 hour particular aid research project , '' say shalala . 
administration source subsequently confirm nih director dr. bernadine 
healy food drug administration commissioner david kessler 
convince white house multiple vaccine test 
simultaneously . 
president frank say test 
multiple vaccine could triple cost trial delay two 
year . 

medical newsletter page 41 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
`` limit azt 's impact hiv '' u.s. news & world report vol . 
114 , no. 14 , p. 18 
azt become widely use drug fight aids since 
approve food drug administration 1987 . 
burroughs wellcome , 
manufacturer azt , make $ 338 million last year alone sale 
drug . 
however , team european researcher recently report 
although hiv-positive patient take azt demonstrate slightly lower risk 
develop aid within first year treatment , benefit 
disappear two year later . 
lancet publish preliminary finding 
three-year study , could give reason critic argue 
drug 's cost , side effect , general efficacy . 
even though u.s. 
researcher concede study comprehensive american trial , 
many argue european researcher ' suggestion hiv-positive patient 
experience little improvement illness development 
aids symptom . 
addition , researcher long familiar 
--------- end part 3 ------------ 
-- 
internet : fax : +1 
bitnet : fidonet > 15 
amateur packet : 
