: 
subject : ground power wiring , re : question outlet wiring 
lines : 163 
: 
organization : adelphi university , garden city ny 
quite bit discussion house wiring grounding 
practice . 
point need clarify : 
equipment grounding conductor , green , green yellow stripe , bare , 
metal sheath pipe wiring method , use safety ground , 
carry fault current back circuit breaker panel , limit 
voltage metal case utilization equipment metal object . 

never except exception discuss later carry 
normal operating current connected load . 
equipment filter 
power supply may cause slight current flow grounding 
conductor . 
much communication audio equipment sensitive noise slight voltage 
ground conductor , may require special wiring grounding 
conductor provide reliable operation `` orange '' outlet often use 
, insulate grounding conductor wire back panel box , 
many case back service . 
anyone install system read 
section grounding national electric code publication 
install quiet isolate ground system . 
code require insulate 
ground conductor green wire run current carry conductor 
back panel box , , require , back way service 
entrance , bond service ground water pipe rod many 
system install illegally unsafely , provide 
safe ground quiet ground either . 
grounded conductor circuit , often call neutral , 
refer code `` identify '' conductor suppose 
white natural gray . 
conductor suppose connect ground 
electrical system single point , generally service entrance 
panel . 
connection main bonding jumper . 
many household 
service panel , main bonding jumper actually bonding screw 
attach neutral case panel 
ground conductor neutral generally current carry conductor . 

case 120 volt circuit one two conductor complete 
circuit panel load device . 
since ground conductor neutral connect grounding 
conductor bare green service entrance , load distance 
service draw significant current , small 
measurable voltage ground ground conductor load , 
normal operating condition . 
incorrectly connect 
ground neutral conductor ground conductor load , 
neutral current flow instead ground conductor . 
since 
current flow ground conductor , also 
longer quite ground potential load end . 
load equipment 
metal case , connect ground conductor `` u '' 
ground plug , metal case also longer quite ground potential . 
difference normal , non short-circuit condition may 
tenth volt , could also volt two . 
normally 
present shock hazard . 
however , let metal case ground equipment come contact 
independently ground object water gas pipe , radiator , 
metal air conditioning duct , part neutral current try 
flow ground path . 
contact solid , 
get significant arc low voltage , possibly moderate current arc 
wrong condition , arcing could start fire . 
possible 
case sneak ground current could also flow wire 
inadequate size , cause overheat . 
incorrect non single-point grounding neutral , 
short circuit hot neutral , high short circuit current may 
flow cause much higher voltage ground conductor , 
increase possibility shock fire . 
also incorrectly multiply connect neutral ground , voltage 
ground system see noise bu computer audio equipment , often 
cause malfunction . 
spend hour track shorts 
technical facility induce severe hum equipment . 
neutral usually bond ground distribution transformer 
well service entrance dwelling . 
primarily 
lightning protection , induce lightning current short path back 
ground , also assure current draw shorts ground 
object like pipe draw enough current trip circuit breaker blow fuse 
quickly . 
bad side neutral current 
dwelling go neutral wire back transformer . 

flow ground electrode water pipe , etc. may cause 
corrosion pipe possibly thing like underground fuel oil tank , 
may also cause measurable ac magnetic field due large loop 
`` hot '' conductor service neutral current 
water pipe ground . 
feel field may unhealthy . 
flame , tell field come , 
health effect , far concerned , jury still . 
note bonding jumper install main panel , 
sub distribution panel . 
one reason illegal run service 
entrance cable sheath use neutral sub panel , must 
seperate insulate conductor neutral . 
sheath use 
application grounding conductor . 
neutral bond 
ground conductor sub panel , say forget remove bonding 
screw , ground conductor load panel 
ground , possible problem list . 
code make exception range dryer , well feed one 
build another . 
case range dryer , neutral may 
use equipment ground certain condition , instead seperate 
wire . 
every time code revise , exception come review . 
exception , fact first require safety grounds , day 
u ground outlet . 
appliance manufacturer want 
redesign range drier , contractor want 
run four wire cable four fairly heavy , expensive wire place 
three wire appliance . 
question would safer seperate 
neutral stove , neutral current low burner setting 
since current 220 volt `` hot '' except low setting , 
wire large gauge , report case injury damage . 
far , exception survive . 
case feed building , 
primarily lightning protection . 
people wiring aware legal grounding 
conductor . 
obviously , bare wire `` '' ` ground ' . 
anywhere 
green wire install , portable cord , good 
ground conductor . 
sheath bx clamp bx connector metal box 
legal grounding conductor us . 
bx aluminum band run 
steel sheath lower resistance sheath . 
cut 
aluminum band end , bond anything , 
job touch every turn bx sheath . 
conduit emt 
tubing generally legal grounding conductor , may require bonding 
enter box panel , particularly larger pipe . 
`` greenfield '' look like big bx , pull wire empty 
sheath run legal grounding conductor , 
aluminum band bond , spiral steel much resistance 
inductance . 
run seperate green grounding conductor inside 
greenfield . 
`` '' also legal grounding conductor , paint box 
often prevent good contact , `` feed '' extension often 
box wall may well connect first 
box . 
personally discover case entire run 
case everything plug outlet run `` hot '' 
120 volt get shock every time touch computer radiator 
office ? 
ground wire one 
outlet short edge box . 
must run 
ground wire back outlet least first box 
original wiring conduit , bx , etc. `` bond '' wire 
box screw , clip , whatever . 
another issue , grind green outlet 
ever place grind , legal nec use 
without ground ground available . 
better 
protection ground fault interrupter protection 
install . 
interrupter depend ground trip . 

desirable connect ground available , ground 
connect , interrupter trip soon faulty device plug , 
whereas without ground , trip someone something 
provide ground path . 
question legal use ungrounded 
's , read nec , d exception . 
1990 code , ' 93 
code city , know rule change . 
might 
renumber though . 
touch surface concern grounding ; - , much 
subject , fall asleep . 
john 
-- 

john h. schmidt , p.e. | internet : 
technical director , | phone -- day 
adelphi university | evenings 
garden city , new york | fax ------------- 

