: pat myrto 
subject : re : text white house announcement q&a clipper chip encryption 
distribution : na 
organization : totally unorganized 
lines : 281 
article < > robert ward write : 
> article < > write : 
since us constitution guarantee right every american 
bear arm , every american entitle , matter 
> 
> read applicable part constitution interpret 
> context ? 
, please post misinterpretation . 
> refer right people organize militia , individual 
> carry handgun , grenade , assault rifle . 
read , re-apply admonition give 
previous poster , well . 
first clause condition , 
reason explicitly support right exist , militia 
, people right keep bear arm . 

right grant constitution , right presume exist 
default . 
constitution mention right prevent 
government remove right state clearly government 
shall infringe mess , block , limit right . 
remember 
constitution bunch negative thing - thing government 
. 
rights , etc give government go 
state people people 9 amendment 
bill rights talk . 
since sure summarily reject interpretation , 
append linguistic analysis one far expert 
, suspect . 
sure find qualification adequate . 
enough send senate subcommitee 
judiciary constitution report thing ... 
thing big brother type , like biden , etc must 
really swallow hard admit . 
think find people seriously study constitution 
state mean say thing . 
come 
` new improve meaning ' try subvert 
constitution give agenda . 
like clinton clinton cripple , 
gun control , people control , control control , whole nasty 
mess . 
please tell person error , ? 
please back 
proof , since back assertion independent 
proof , bunch provide ... . 
note : followup set 
--------- begin include article ------- 
unabridged second amendment 
j. neil schulman 
want know big bang , would ring carl sagan , 
right ? 
want know desert warfare , man call 
would norman schwarzkopf , question . 
would call 
want top expert american usage , tell meaning 
second amendment united states constitution ? 
question ask a.c. , editorial coordinator los 
angeles unified school district formerly senior editor houghton 
mifflin publishers -- recommend 
foremost expert english usage los angeles school system . 
mr. 
tell get touch roy , retired professor 
journalism university southern california author 
`` american usage style : consensus . '' 
little research lend support 's opinion professor 's 
expertise . 
roy newspaper writer major daily three decade 
embark distinguish 17-year career teaching journalism 
usc . 
since 1952 , write column deal 
professional aspect journalism `` editor publisher '' , weekly 
magazine focus journalism field . 
usage panel american heritage dictionary , merriam 
webster 's usage dictionary frequently cite expert . 
's 
fifth book usage , `` american usage style : consensus , '' 
continuous print van nostrand reinhold since 1981 , winner 
association american publisher 's humanities award . 
sound like expert . 
brief telephone call professor introduce 
give indication interested , send 
follow letter : 
`` write ask professional opinion expert 
english usage , analyze text second amendment united 
states constitution , extract intent text . 
`` text second amendment , ' well-regulated militia , 
necessary security free state , right people keep 
bear arm , shall infringe . ' 
`` debate amendment whether first part 
sentence , ' well-regulated militia , necessary security 
free state ' , restrictive clause subordinate clause , respect 
independent clause contain subject sentence , ` 
right people keep bear arm , shall infringe . ' 
`` would request analysis sentence take 
consideration issue political impact public policy , restricted 
entirely linguistic analysis meaning intent . 
, 
since professional analysis likely become part litigation 
regard consequence second amendment , ask whatever 
analysis make professional opinion would willing 
stand behind reputation , even willing testify 
oath support , necessary . '' 
letter frame several question test second amendment , 
conclude : 
`` realize ask take major responsibility task 
letter . 
, citizen , believe 
vitally important extract actual meaning second amendment . 
ask analysis affect political importance 
result , ask importance . '' 
several letter phone call , discuss term 
analysis , never discuss either 
opinion regard second amendment , gun control , political 
subject , professor send follow analysis 
insert question sake clarity : 
security free state , ' contrary interpretation cite 
letter july 26 , 1991 , constitute present participle , rather 
clause . 
use adjective , modify ` militia , ' 
follow main clause sentence subject ` right ' , verb 
` shall ' . 
keep bear arm assert essential 
maintain militia . 
`` reply number question : 
bear arm solely ' well-regulated militia ' ? '' 
arm , state imply possession right elsewhere 
people ; simply make positive statement respect 
right people . '' 
word second amendment , second amendment assume 
right people keep bear arm , merely state 
right ` shall infringe ' ? '' 
assume . 
thrust sentence right shall 
preserved inviolate sake ensure militia . '' 
condition upon whether well regulate militia , , fact 
necessary security free state , condition 
exist , statement ` right people keep bear arm , 
shall infringe ' null void ? '' 
keep bear arm say amendment depend existence 
militia . 
condition state imply relation 
right keep bear arm necessity well-regulated 
militia requisite security free state . 
right keep 
bear arm deem unconditional entire sentence . '' 
security free state , ' grant right government place 
condition ` right people keep bear arm , ' 
right deem unconditional meaning entire sentence ? '' 
previously state . 
invoke specifically sake 
militia . '' 
militia ' mean : ` well-equipped ' , ` well-organized , ' ` , ' 
` well-educated , ' ` subject regulation superior authority ' ? '' 
authority ; ' accord desire writer civilian 
control military . '' 
change meaning word , usage , since sentence write 200 
year ago , take account historical interpretation 
intent author , unless issue clearly separate . '' 
meaning word usage would affect meaning 
amendment . 
write today , might put : `` since 
well-regulated militia necessary tot security free state , 
right people keep bear arm shall abridged . ' 
appreciate could compare analysis text second 
amendment following sentence , 
`` electorate , necessary security free 
state , right people keep read book , shall 
infringe . ' 
`` question usage analysis sentence would , 
'' 1 grammatical structure usage sentence way 
word modify , identical second amendment 's sentence ? 
; 

'' 2 could sentence interpret restrict ` right people 
keep read book ' _ _ ' well-educated electorate ' -- 
example , register voter high-school diploma ? '' 
amendment grammatical structure . 
'' 2 nothing sentence either indicate imply 
possibility restricted interpretation . '' 
professor one additional comment , place 
cover letter : `` well-known human curiosity , make speculative 
effort decide material might use , unable reach 
conclusion . '' 
tell one top expert american usage 
many know along : constitution united states unconditionally 
protect people 's right keep bear arm , forbid 
government form constitution abridge right . 
write , attempt coup constitutional government 
soviet union fail , apparently people 
part world free capricious tyranny stronger 
old guard 's desire maintain monopoly dictatorial power . 
united states , elect lawmaker , judge , appoint 
official pledge defend constitution united states 
ignore , marginalize , prevaricate second amendment routinely . 
american citizen put american prison carry arm , 
arm forbid sort , fail satisfy bureaucratic requirement 
regard owning carrying firearm -- 
abridgement unconditional right people keep bear arm , 
guarantee constitution . 
even american civil liberties union aclu , staunch defender 
rest bill rights , stand nothing . 
seem believe right keep bear arm 
preserve right . 
one else . 
one else . 
beg 
elect representative take away rights , continue regard 
represent ? 
continue obey judge 
decide second amendment mean say mean 
means whatever say mean orwellian doublespeak ? 
simply keep bear arm choice , constitution 
united states promise , pledge defend 
promise life , fortun , sacred honor ? 
c 1991 new gun week second amendment foundation . 
informational reproduction entire article hereby authorize 
provide author , new gun week second amendment foundation 
credit . 
rights reserve . 
author 
j. neil schulman award-winning author novel endorse anthony 
burgess milton friedman , writer cbs `` twilight 
zone '' episode time-traveling historian prevent jfk 
assassination . 
also founder president publishing , 
first publishing company distribute `` paperless book '' via personal 
computer modem . 
recently , schulman found committee enforce second 
amendment cesa , intend see individual 's right 
keep bear arm recognize constitutional protection equal 
afford first , fourth , fifth , ninth fourteenth amendment . 
------------- end include article -------- 
still honestly say second ` state-run militia right ' ? 
-- 
without prejudice ucc pat myrto seattle , wa 
else fail , try : ... ! 

wisdom : `` two thing infinite ; universe human stupidity , 
sure former . '' 
- albert 
