: louis gonzalez 
subject : sphinx : satellite image processing x11 
organization : universite des sciences et technologie de lille , france 
lines : 106 
: 
: tin version 1.1 
sphinx 
sphinx user-friendly , state-of-the-art image processing 
analysis package run across spectrum high performance 
computer platform operate unix system . 
create meet daily research need scientist 
conduct climate investigation use satellite datum remote 
sense technique . 
intuitive graphic interface 
sphinx feature interactive interface pop-up menu 
point-and-click dialog box make image processing 
analysis simple fast . 
accessible enable build attractive image 
layout quickly also provide flexibility return 
main menu conduct image analysis processing operation . 
image format compatibility 
use smart function , sphinx allow easily open 
save image file variety format use bit , integer real 
datum value . 
sphinx also read write common tiff gif format 
well compress decompress image format save disk space . 
image analysis & processing 
image pixel analysis , sphinx package include 
assortment processing tool perform useful statistical 
mathematical filter operation , fourier transform , convolution 
product principal component analysis . 
interactive interpreter algebraic equation image allow 
user manipulate combine individual datum channel interactively . 
standard fortran notation use entry trig 
transcendental function . 
satellite spectra & orbit analysis 
sphinx possess function simulate satellite signal sensitivity 
various meteorological satellite e.g. , go , , noaa , spot etc. . 
simulation conduct selection standard atmospheric 
surface condition instrument spectral band . 
geometry model compute solar zenith angle , warping , orbit simulation , 
3-d image projection . 
easy external program interfacing 
sphinx allow user flexibility integrate externally 
develop software algorithm processing convert satellite 
observation . 
sphinx export import image file image parameter 
external program use special interface function . 
quick quality presentation 
sphinx rapidly display , manipulate , enhance high-resolution 
multispectral image color table . 
use six 8-bit image 
plane one graphic plane , package conveniently combine color image , 
graphic text generate sharp digital image article report . 
sphinx 's 2-d 3-d graphic editor provide complete flexibility modify 
integrate vector graphic analysis plot image , 
histogram radial graph . 
package supplies color gray scale 
output standard inkjet laser printer . 
capability sphinx also perform image animation , external 
graphic import , mosaic fitting ... else ? 
software support & development 
sphinx develop laboratoire loa 
universite de lille , france . 
package receive critical feedback support scientist 
french national laboratory , centre national de recherche scientifique cnrs , 
french space agency , centre national d'etudes cnes . 
loa , sphinx undergo continue refinement development meet change 
research need advance computer technology . 
package , feature 
on-line help , support internet address 
question answer 
version update provide without delay . 
performance tested 
cnes select sphinx analyze process satellite datum 
collect satellite mission . 
today , 
sphinx package use nasa - goddard space flight center 
widely use many french laboratory , include 
centre de recherche en physique de l'environnement , ecole normale superieure , 
laboratoire d' etudes et de recherches en , laboratoire 
de . 
test version sphinx available 
anonymous bin : cd sphinx : get . 

test version output file disable . 
however 
visualisation graphic function available . 

sufficient work . 
interested keep `` sphinx '' , send us email 
receive news package evolution . 
software change user suggestion 
appreciate comment . 
