: richard 
subject : rollout report 
: forward space digest 
organization : via international space university 
: 
distribution : sci 
lines : 124 
mcdonnell douglas roll 
huntington beach , calif. -- southern 
california day , mcdonnell douglas roll rocket ship last 
saturday . 
company hope single-stage rocket technology 
demonstrator first step towards ssto 
rocket ship . 
white conical vehicle schedule go white sands 
missile range new mexico week . 
flight test start 
mid-june . 
although cloud noonday sky , forecast 
ssto research remain cloudy . 
sdi organization -- pay $ 60 
million -- afford fund full development 
follow-on vehicle . 
get necessary hundred million require 
sub-orbital , sdio pass tin cup among sister government 
agency . 
sdio originally fund ssto research way cut cost 
orbital deployment space-based sensor . 
however , recent 
change sdi 's political march order budget cut make ssto 
less priority . 
today , agency interested use 
step towards low-cost , reusable sound rocket . 
sdio already 50 briefing government agency , 
say col. simon `` pete '' worden , sdio 's deputy technology . 
worden 
decline say much agency would pony 
program . 
`` make colonel tell contractor much money 
available spend , '' quip press conference mcdonnell 
douglas astronautics headquarters . 
sdio lower sight program 's orbital 
objective , agency official hail example `` better , 
faster , cheaper '' approach hardware development . 
agency believe 
philosophy produce breakthrough `` leapfrog '' ahead 
evolutionary technology development . 
worden say illustrate `` build little , test 
little '' approach produce result time within budget . 
say 
program -- go concept hardware around 18 month -- 
show today 's engineer could move beyond `` miracle 
parent ' time . '' 
`` key management , '' worden say . 
`` sdio light hand 
project . 
one overworked major , jess . '' 
although next phase may involve agency , worden say 
lean management sense partnership 
crucial . 
`` essential end large management 
structure price go exponentially . '' 
sdio 's approach also win praise two california member 
house science , space technology committee . 
`` direction 
go go , '' say rep. george brown , committee 's 
democratic chairman . 
`` program stretch aout 10 15 year 
sustainable ... nasa learn yet . 
sdio . '' 
rep. dana rohrbacher , brown 's republican colleague , go . 
joke `` shrimp fish design nasa design team , '' 
rohrbacher doubt program ever would complete 
leave civil space agency . 
rohrbacher , whose orange county district include mcdonnell 
douglas , also criticize force work conventional , 
rocket place new casing around old missile technology . 
`` let 's 
build fancy ammunition capsule top . 
let 's build spaceship ! '' 
although rohrbacher praise sdio 's sponsorship , say 
private sector need take lead develop ssto technology . 
mcdonnell douglas , face uncertain prospects 
c-17 transport space station freedom program , cautious 
large private commitment . 
`` large venture , 
company put seed money , '' say charles , mcdonnell douglas ' 
senior vice president space system . 
`` need strong government 
investment . '' 
government industry continue differ funding 
, agree continue incremental approach 
development . 
cite corporate history , liken process douglas 
aircraft 's dc aircraft . 
two earlier aircraft pave way 
dc-3 transport , gradual evolution single-stage rocketry could 
eventually lead orbital delta clipper . 
flight test summer white sands `` expand envelope '' 
performance , successive test increase speed altitude . 

first test reach 600 foot demonstrate hover , 
take-off landing . 
second series send unmanned 
5,000 foot . 
third final series take craft 20,000 
foot . 
maneuver become complex third phase . 
final 
test include `` '' rotate vehicle back 
configuration soft , four-legged landing . 
flight test series supervise charles `` pete '' 
conrad , perform similar maneuver apollo 12 moon landing . 
mcdonnell douglas vice president , conrad paise vehicle 
approach operation . 
feature include automate 
check-out access panel easy maintainance . 
program move next stage , engine technology 
become key consideration . 
engine would thrust 
pratt & whitney engine use . 
motor use liquid 
hydrogen liquid oxygen propellant generate pound 
thrust 
base engine use centaur upper stage , a-5 model 
thrust design sea level operation 
throttle capability . 
also design repeat firing rapid 
turnaround . 
worden say future single-stage rocket could employ 
engine technology develop former soviet union . 
result engine could burn dense hydrocarbon fuel takeoff 
switch liquid hydrogen higher altitude . 
mechanism team may already place . 
pratt 
technology agreement npo energomash , design bureau responsible 
energia cryogenic engine . 
