: rob shirey < > 
subject : isoc symposium net security 
: < > 
: fri , 16 apr 93 gmt 
: . 

organization : mitre corporation , mclean , virginia , usa 
: v1 d20 
lines : 94 
call papers 
internet society symposium 
network distribute system security 
3-4 february 1994 , catamaran hotel , san diego , california 
symposium bring together people build software 
hardware provide network distribute system security service . 
symposium intend interested practical aspect 
network distribute system security , rather theory . 
symposium 
proceedings publish internet society . 
topic 
symposium include , limit , following : 
design implementation service -- access control , authentication , 
availability , confidentiality , integrity , non-repudiation 
-- include criterion place service particular protocol 
layer . 
design implementation security mechanism support 
service -- key management system , authorization 
audit system , intrusion detection system . 
requirement architecture distribute application 
network function -- message handling , file transport , remote 
file access , directory , time synchronization , interactive 
session , remote datum base management access , route , voice 
video multicast conferencing , news group , network management , 
boot service , mobile computing , remote . 
special issue problem security architecture , 
-- large system like international internet , 
-- high-speed system like gigabit testbed build . 
interplay security goal goal -- efficiency , 
reliability , interoperability , resource sharing , low cost . 
general chair : 
dan , lawrence livermore national laboratory 
program chair : 
russ housley , xerox special information systems 
rob shirey , mitre corporation 
program committee : 
dave , trusted information systems 
tom berson , anagram laboratories 
matt bishop , dartmouth college 
ed cain , u.s. defense information systems agency 
jim ellis , cert coordination center 
steve kent , bolt , beranek newman 
john linn , independent consultant 
clifford neuman , information sciences institute 
michael roe , cambridge university 
rob rosenthal , u.s. national institute standards technology 
jeff schiller , massachusetts institute technology 
ravi sandhu , george mason university 
peter yee , u.s. national aeronautics space administration 
submission : committee seek original technical papers 
proposal panel discussion technical topic general 
interest . 
technical papers 10-20 page length . 
panel 
include three four speaker . 
panel proposal must name 
panel chair , include one-page topic introduction author chair , 
also include one-page position summary author speaker 
technical papers panel papers appear 
proceedings . 
submission must make 16 august 1993 . 
submission make 
via electronic mail 
. 
submission may either two format : ascii postscript . 

committee unable read postscript submission , 
return ascii request . 
therefore , postscript submission 
arrive well 16 august . 
electronic submission absolutely 
impossible , submission send via postal mail 
robert w. shirey , mail stop 
mitre corporation 
mclean , virginia usa 
submission must include internet electronic mail address 
postal address . 
submission acknowledge 
medium receive . 
acknowledgment receive within 
seven day , please contact either rob shirey < > 
russ housley < > , telephone mana weigand 
mitre mclean , . 
author panelist notify acceptance 15 october 1993 . 
instruction prepare copy proceedings 
postal mail time . 
copy must receive 
15 november 1993 . 
