: jon leech 
subject : space faq - become astronaut 
keyword : frequently ask question 
: _ 
expire : 6 may 1993 gmt 
distribution : world 
organization : university north carolina , chapel hill 
lines : 313 
supersedes : < > 
: 
: 
: $ date : $ 
become astronaut 
first short form , author henry spencer , official nasa 
announcement . 
q. become astronaut ? 
a. assume mean nasa astronaut , since probably 
impossible non-russian get cosmonaut corps pay 
passenger professional cosmonaut , nation 
astronaut fly even fewer better hope 
win lottery . 
become shuttle pilot require lot 
experience , mean military fly career ; forget unless 
want anyway . 
want become shuttle `` mission 
specialist '' . 
us citizen , become one ; must . 
, 
crucial thing remember demand job vastly 
exceed supply . 
nasa 's problem find qualified people , 
thin lineup manageable length . 
enough 
qualify ; must avoid dis qualify reason , 
many principle quite irrelevant job . 
get ph.d. . 
specialize something involve get hand 
dirty equipment , paper pencil . 
forget computer 
programming entirely ; ground fore - 
future . 
degree one field plus work experience 
another seem frequent winner . 
good physical condition , good eyesight . 
get 
radial similar hack improve vision ; nobody know 
sudden pressure change would eye , long-term 
effect poorly understand . 
matter , avoid 
significant medical unknown . 
pass physical , 
okay ; , chance poor . 
practise public speaking , conservative conformist 
appearance action ; get tough selling job ahead , try 
convince cautious , conservative selection committee 
better hundred applicant . 
, also , 
credit nasa hire : public relation 
significant part job , nasa 's image prim 
proper . 
image want workaholic yuppie . 
remember also need security clearance point , 
security consider everybody guilty proven innocent . 
keep nose clean . 
get pilot 's license make fly number one hobby ; 
experienced pilot know favor even job . 
work nasa ; 45 astronaut select 1984 1988 , 
43 military nasa employee , remain two 
nasa consultant mae jemison first black female astronaut . 
apply outside nasa miss , offer job 
nasa , take ; sometimes past mean `` 
look interesting want know bit better first '' . 
think space : want highly motivated people , lose chance 
demonstrate motivation . 
keep try . 
many astronaut make first time . 
nasa 
national aeronautics space administration 
lyndon b. johnson space center 
houston , texas 
announcement mission specialist pilot astronaut candidate 

astronaut candidate program 

national aeronautics space administration nasa need 
pilot astronaut candidate mission specialist astronaut candidates 
support space shuttle program . 
nasa accept 
continuous basis plan select astronaut candidate need . 
person civilian sector military service 
consider . 
position located lyndon b. johnson space center 
houston , texas , involve 1-year training evaluation 
program . 
space shuttle program description 
--------------------------------- 
numerous successful flight space shuttle demonstrate 
operation experimental investigation space become 
routine . 
space shuttle orbiter launch , maneuver 
earth orbit perform mission 30 day . 

return earth ready another flight payload 
flight crew . 
orbiter perform variety orbital mission include deployment 
retrieval satellite , service exist satellite , operation 
specialize laboratory astronomy , earth science , material 
processing , manufacturing , operation . 
mission 
eventually include development servicing permanent space 
station . 
orbiter also provide staging capability use higher 
orbit achieve orbiter . 
user space 
shuttle 's capability domestic foreign include 
government agency private industry . 
crew normally consist five people - commander , pilot , 
three mission specialist . 
occasion additional crew member 
assign . 
commander , pilot , mission specialist nasa 
astronaut . 
pilot astronaut 
pilot astronaut server space shuttle commander pilot . 
flight commander onboard responsibility vehicle , 
crew , mission success safety flight . 
pilot assist 
commander control operate vehicle . 
addition , 
pilot may assist deployment retrieval satellite utilize 
remote manipulator system , extra-vehicular activity , 
payload operation . 
mission specialist astronaut 
mission specialist astronaut , work commander pilot , 
overall responsibility coordination shuttle operation 
area crew activity planning , consumable usage , 
experiment payload operation . 
mission specialist require 
detailed knowledge shuttle system , well detailed 
knowledge operational characteristic , mission requirement 
objective , support system equipment 
experiment conduct assign mission . 
mission 
specialist perform extra-vehicular activity , payload handling 
use remote manipulator system , perform assist specific 
experimental operation . 
astronaut candidate program 

basic qualification requirement 
-------------------------------- 
applicant must meet follow minimum requirement prior 
submit application . 
mission specialist astronaut candidate : 
1 . 
bachelor 's degree accredit institution engineering , 
biological science , physical science mathematics . 
degree must 
follow least three year related progressively responsible , 
professional experience . 
advanced degree desirable may 
substitute part experience requirement master 's 
degree 1 year , doctoral degree 3 year . 
quality academic 
preparation important . 
2 . 
ability pass nasa class ii space physical , similar 
civilian military class ii flight physical include follow 
specific standard : 
distant visual acuity : 
better uncorrected , 
correctable , eye . 
blood pressure : 
measure sit position . 
3 . 
height 58.5 76 inch . 
pilot astronaut candidate : 
1 . 
bachelor 's degree accredit institution engineering , 
biological science , physical science mathematics . 
degree must 
follow least three year related progressively responsible , 
professional experience . 
advanced degree desirable . 
quality 
academic preparation important . 
2 . 
least 1000 hour pilot-in-command time jet aircraft . 
flight 
test experience highly desirable . 
3 . 
ability pass nasa class space physical similar 
military civilian class flight physical include follow 
specific standard : 
distant visual acuity : 
better uncorrected 
correctable , eye . 
blood pressure : 
measure sit position . 
4 . 
height 64 76 inch . 
citizenship requirement 
application astronaut candidate program must citizen 
united states . 
note academic requirement 
applicant astronaut candidate program must meet basic 
education requirement nasa engineering scientific position -- 
specifically : successful completion standard professional curriculum 
accredit college university lead least bachelor 's 
degree major study appropriate field engineering , 
biological science , physical science , mathematics . 
follow degree field , related engineering 
science , consider qualify : 
- degree technology engineering technology , aviation technology , 
medical technology , etc. . 
- degree psychology except clinical psychology , physiological 
psychology , experimental psychology qualify . 
- degree nursing . 
- degree social science geography , anthropology , archaeology , etc. . 
- degree aviation , aviation management similar field . 
application procedure 
---------------------- 
civilian 
application package may obtain write : 
nasa johnson space center 
astronaut selection office 
attn : 
houston , tx 
civilian application accept continuous basis . 
nasa 
decide select additional astronaut candidate , consideration 
give application hand date decision 
make . 
application receive date retain 
consider next selection . 
applicant notify annually 
opportunity update application indicate 
continued interest consider program . 
applicant 
update application annually drop 
consideration , application retain . 

preliminary screening application , additional information may 
request applicant , person list application 
supervisor reference may contact . 
active duty military 
active duty military personnel must submit application 
respective military service directly nasa . 
application 
procedure disseminate service . 
selection 
--------- 
personal interview thorough medical evaluation require 
civilian military applicant final consideration . 
final selection make , applicant consider 
notify outcome process . 
selection roster establish process may use 
selection additional candidate one year period follow 
establishment . 
general program requirement 
select applicant designate astronaut candidate 
assign astronaut office johnson space center , houston , 
texas . 
astronaut candidate undergo 1 year training 
evaluation period time assign technical 
scientific responsibility allow contribute substantially 
ongoing program . 
also participate basic astronaut 
training program design develop knowledge skill 
require formal mission training upon selection flight . 
pilot 
astronaut candidate maintain proficiency nasa aircraft 
candidate period . 
applicant aware selection astronaut candidate 
insure selection astronaut . 
final selection astronaut 
depend satisfactory completion 1 year training 
evaluation period . 
civilian candidate successfully complete 
training evaluation select astronaut become 
permanent federal employee expect remain nasa 
period least five year . 
civilian candidate 
select astronaut may place position within nasa 
depend upon agency requirement manpower constraint 
time . 
successful military candidate detail nasa 
specify tour duty . 
nasa affirmative action program goal qualify 
minority woman among qualify astronaut candidate . 
therefore , qualify minority woman encourage apply . 
pay benefit 
---------------- 
civilian 
salary civilian astronaut candidate base federal 
government general schedule pay scale grade , 
set accordance individual academic achievement 
experience . 
benefit include vacation sick leave , retirement plan , 
participation group health life insurance plan . 
military 
select military personnel detail johnson space center 
remain active duty status pay , benefit , leave , 
similar military matter . 
next : faq # - orbital planetary launch services 
