: clipper chip announcement 
subject : white house public encryption management fact sheet 
organization : national institute standards & technology 
distribution : na 
lines : 94 
note : following release white house today 
conjunction announcement clipper chip 
encryption technology . 
fact sheet 
public encryption management 
president approve directive `` public encryption 
management . '' 
directive provide following : 
advanced telecommunications commercially available encryption 
part wave new computer communication technology . 
encryption product scramble information protect privacy 
communication datum prevent unauthorized access . 
advanced telecommunications system use digital technology 
rapidly precisely handle high volume communication . 
advanced telecommunications system integral 
infrastructure need ensure economic competitiveness 
information age . 
despite benefit , new communication technology also 
frustrate lawful government electronic surveillance . 
sophisticated 
encryption effect united states . 

export abroad , use thwart foreign intelligence 
activity critical national interest . 
past , 
possible preserve government capability conduct 
electronic surveillance furtherance legitimate law 
enforcement national security interest , time 
protect privacy civil liberty citizen . 

encryption technology improve , require new , 
innovative approach . 
area communication encryption , u. s. government 
develop provide privacy 
encryption substantially robust current 
government standard , also permit key need 
unlock encryption . 
system key 
allow government gain access encrypted information 
appropriate legal authorization . 
assist law enforcement government agency collect 
decrypt , legal authority , electronically transmit 
information , hereby direct follow action take : 
installation 
attorney general united states , representative , 
shall request manufacturer communication hardware 
incorporate encryption install u.s. 
product . 
fact law 
enforcement access escrow key conceal 
american public . 
appropriate step shall take 
ensure exist future version 
make widely available u.s. communication 
hardware manufacturer , consistent need ensure 
security system . 
make decision , 
intend prevent private sector develop , 
government approve , algorithm 
equally effective assure privacy secure key - 
escrow system . 

attorney general shall make arrangement appropriate 
entity hold key 
install communication equipment . 
case , key 
holder must agree strict security procedure prevent 
unauthorized release key . 
key shall release 
government agency establish authority 
acquire content communication 
encrypt device contain . 
attorney 
general shall review legal sufficiency procedure 
agency establish authority acquire content 
communication . 
procurement use encryption device 
secretary commerce , consultation appropriate 
u.s. agency , shall initiate process write standard 
facilitate procurement use encryption device fit 
federal communication system 
process sensitive unclassified information . 
expect 
process proceed schedule permit promulgation 
final standard within six month directive . 
attorney general procure utilize encryption device 
extent need preserve government 's ability conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance fulfill need secure 
law enforcement communication . 
, attorney general 
shall utilize fund department justice asset forfeiture 
super surplus fund effect purchase . 
