: pat myrto 
subject : new clipper chip proposal guv ... 
keyword : encryption , privacy , individual rights , legality , big brother 
organization : totally unorganized 
lines : 310 
see article post local newsgroup . 
see , 
followup traffic relate group group 
subscribe . 
, post read , 
check , comment , provide idea handle 
sort thing . 
verification accuracy lack accuracy 
article , accurate , find extremely disturbing , especially 
light various abuse ssn number regard privacy , understand 
require ca renew driver license , register 
car proposal regard ` smart ' national identity cards , 
wiretap proposal , . 
one simply wonder gem 
wing ready spring people government . 
perhaps 
suggestion idea prevent proposal 
acquire force law would useful . 
cost simply outweigh 
possible benefit , imo . 
btw , read make think idea prof denning 
promote , even disturbing form . 
say , comment , article follow : 
------------ begin include article --------- 
note : file also available via anonymous file 
transfer directory 
via nist computer security bbs . 
--------------------------------------------------- 
white house 
office press secretary 

immediate release april 16 , 1993 
statement press secretary 
president today announce new initiative bring 
federal government together industry voluntary 
program improve security privacy telephone 
communication meet legitimate need law 
enforcement . 
initiative involve creation new product 
accelerate development use advanced secure 
telecommunications network wireless communication link . 
long little dialogue 
private sector law enforcement community resolve 
tension economic vitality real challenge 
protect americans . 
rather use technology accommodate 
sometimes compete interest economic growth , privacy 
law enforcement , previous policy pit government 
industry rights privacy law enforcement . 
sophisticated encryption technology use year 
protect electronic fund transfer . 
use 
protect electronic mail computer file . 
encryption 
technology help americans protect business secret 
unauthorized release personal information , also use 
terrorist , drug dealer , criminal . 
state-of-the-art call `` clipper chip '' 
develop government engineer . 
chip represent 
new approach encryption technology . 
use new , 
relatively inexpensive encryption device attach 
ordinary telephone . 
scramble telephone communication 
use encryption algorithm powerful many 
commercial use today . 
new technology help company protect proprietary 
information , protect privacy personal phone conversation 
prevent unauthorized release datum transmit 
electronically . 
time technology preserve 
ability federal , state local law enforcement agency 
intercept lawfully phone conversation criminal . 
`` '' system establish ensure 
`` clipper chip '' use protect privacy law-abiding 
americans . 
device contain chip two unique 
2 
`` key , '' number need authorized government 
agency decode message encode device . 

device manufacture , two key deposit separately 
two `` '' datum basis establish 
attorney general . 
access key limit 
government official legal authorization conduct 
wiretap . 
`` clipper chip '' technology provide law enforcement 
new authority access content private 
conversation americans . 
demonstrate effectiveness new technology , 
attorney general soon purchase several thousand new 
device . 
addition , respect expert outside 
government offer access confidential detail 
algorithm assess capability publicly report 
finding . 
chip important step address problem 
encryption 's sword : encryption help protect 
privacy individual industry , also shield 
criminal terrorist . 
need `` clipper chip '' 
approach provide law-abiding citizen access 
encryption need prevent criminal use 
hide illegal activity . 
order assess technology 
trend explore new approach like system , 
president direct government agency develop 
comprehensive policy encryption accommodate : 
-- privacy citizen , include need 
employ voice datum encryption business purpose ; 
-- ability authorized official access telephone 
call datum , proper court legal 
order , necessary protect citizen ; 
-- effective timely use modern 
technology build national information 
infrastructure need promote economic growth 
competitiveness american industry global 
marketplace ; 
-- need u.s. company manufacture export 
high technology product . 
president direct early frequent consultation 
affect industry , congress group advocate 
privacy rights individual policy option develop . 
3 
administration commit work private 
sector spur development national information 
infrastructure use new telecommunications computer 
technology give americans unprecedented access 
information . 
infrastructure high-speed network 
`` information superhighway '' transmit video , image , hdtv 
programming , huge datum file easily today 's telephone 
system transmit voice . 
since encryption technology play increasingly important 
role infrastructure , federal government must act 
quickly develop consistent , comprehensive policy regard 
use . 
administration commit policy 
protect americans ' right privacy also protect 
break law . 
information provide accompany fact sheet . 
provision president 's directive acquire new 
encryption technology also available . 
additional detail , call mat heyman , national institute 
standards technology , . 
--------------------------------- 
question answer clinton administration 's 
telecommunications initiative 
q : approach expand authority government 
agency listen phone conversation ? 
: . 
`` clipper chip '' technology provide law enforcement 
new authority access content private 
conversation americans . 
q : suppose law enforcement agency conduct wiretap 
drug smuggling ring intercept conversation 
encrypt use device . 
would 
decipher message ? 
: would obtain legal authorization , normally 
court order , wiretap first place . 

would present documentation authorization 
two entity responsible safeguard key 
obtain key device use drug 
smuggler . 
key split two part , 
store separately order ensure security key 
escrow system . 
q : run datum bank ? 
: two datum bank run two independent 
entity . 
point , department justice 
administration yet determine agency 
oversee datum bank . 
q : strong security device ? 
sure 
strong security ? 
: system secure many voice encryption 
system readily available today . 
algorithm 
remain classify protect security key escrow 
system , willing invite independent panel 
cryptography expert evaluate algorithm assure 
potential user unrecognized 
vulnerability . 
q : whose decision propose product ? 
: national security council , justice department , 
commerce department , key agency involve 
decision . 
approach endorse 
president , vice president , appropriate cabinet 
official . 
q : consult ? 
congress ? 
industry ? 
: on-going discussion congress industry 
encryption issue , expect discussion intensify 
carry review encryption policy . 

brief member congress industry leader 
decision relate initiative . 
q : government provide hardware manufacturer ? 
: government design develop key access 
encryption , provide 
product manufacturer . 
product 
manufacturer acquire chip 
manufacturer produce . 
q : provide `` clipper chip '' ? 
: program facility torrance , 
california , sell chip encryption device 
manufacturer . 
programming function could license 
vendor future . 
q : buy one encryption device ? 
: expect several manufacturer consider incorporate 
`` clipper chip '' device . 
q : administration unable find technological 
solution like one propose , would administration 
willing use legal remedy restrict access 
powerful encryption device ? 
: fundamental policy question 
consider broad policy review . 
key escrow 
mechanism provide americans encryption product 
secure , convenient , less expensive 
readily available today , one 
piece must comprehensive approach 
encryption technology , administration 
develop . 
administration say , `` since encryption 
threaten public safety effective law enforcement , 
prohibit outright '' country 
effectively ; u.s. say `` every 
american , matter right , entitle 
unbreakable commercial encryption product . '' 

false `` tension '' create assessment issue 
`` '' proposition . 
rather , concern , 
fact , harmoniously balance reason , 
balanced approach propose `` clipper 
chip '' similar encryption technique . 
q : decision indicate clinton 
administration 's policy toward encryption differ 
bush administration ? 
: indicate understand importance encryption 
technology telecommunications computing 
commit work industry public-interest 
group find innovative way protect americans ' 
privacy , help business compete , ensure law 
enforcement agency tool need fight crime 
terrorism . 
q : device exportable ? 
device use 
government hardware ? 
: voice encryption device subject export control 
requirement . 
case-by-case review export 
require ensure appropriate use device . 

true encryption device . 
one 
attraction technology protection give 
u.s. company operate home abroad . 

mind , expect export grant 
case-by-case basis u.s. company seek use 
device secure communication abroad . 
plan 
review possibility permit wider 
product . 
----------- end include article ----------- 
-- 
without prejudice ucc pat myrto seattle , wa 
else fail , try : ... ! 

wisdom : `` two thing infinite ; universe human stupidity , 
sure former . '' 
- albert 
