: john baez 
subject : end space age 
: galaxy 
organization : university california , riverside 
lines : 82 
: 
interesting opinion piece business section today 's 
la times thursday april 15 , 1993 , p. d1 . 
think would post 
stir flame war - mean reason debate . 
let preface 
say largely agree `` space age '' romantic sense 
several decade ago , project like space station 
miss point time . 
read , example , `` new '' - 
weekly physics update get net - clear 
romance day lie ever fine-grained manipulation 
matter : include biotechnology , condensed matter physics 
spinoff computer hardware elsewhere , amazing thing 
people individual atom day . 
large extent , 
think , romance people still space matter 
nostalgia . 
feel sure someday - precisely , `` mind 
child '' - spread across space unless wipe ; 
think man space exploration exciting 
. 
anyway , let quote article , ... 
space age glory fade view 
micheal schrage writer , consultant , research associate mit 
35 , america 's space age suffer angst 
midlife crisis . 
reason space age already dead . 
technology 
longer define time , public grow weary multibillion 
- dollar celestial investment yield minimal psychic economic 
reward . 
space exploration mutate central america 's science 
technology debate peripheral issue . 

meaningful part ongoing industrial competitiveness debate , 
technology infrastructure discussion even defense conversion 
policy . 
sure , america continue invest satellite technology 
telecommunications remote sense - cheap deep-space probe 
would nice - ideal space meaningful driver 
scientific industrial innovation dead . 
... 
change administration , would foolish 
write obituary space age . 
bush white house aggressively 
support space program propose spending well $ 30 billion 
build space station freedom alone . 
even propose budget cut science technology domain , 
office management budget director richard darman outspoken 
public champion space expenditure . 
reality much 
civilian space program - shuttle hubble telescope 
space station - poorly conceive 
implement seem matter much . 
political inertia nostalgic sense futurism - coherent 
vision cost-effective sensibility - determine multibillion-dollar 
space budget . 
indeed , notable exception , voyager , 
era story gold-plated space exploration 
program promise deliver less . 
... . 
clinton administration keep highly regard daniel 
goldin administrator national aeronautics space 
administration , seem clear space exploration 
position either symbolic substantive centerpiece america 's 
technological prowess . 
space station budget - rightly - 
slash . 
space virtually ignore administration champion 
competitiveness agenda . 
... . 
`` wish happen 10 year ago instead start happen 
, '' say bruce murray , caltech professor run nasa 's jet 
propulsion lab pasadena . 
`` put lot thing 
... would rather see $ 10-billion nasa well 
$ 40-billion one fill white elephant . '' 
