: david koontz 
subject : fed troll mutilate law enforcement block ? 
originator : 
organization : loral rolm computer systems 
lines : 121 
denning : 
skipjack encryption algorithm 
f , 80-bit family key common chip 
n , 30-bit serial number 
u , 80-bit secret key unlock message encrypt chip 
e m ; k , encrypted message stream , 
e e k ; u + n ; f , law enforcement block . 
session key k , transmit encrypted unit key u. 
along serial number n encrypt family key f. 
presumably protocol recover nothing else , differential 
analysis . 
postulate , chip logic sit clipper chip 
communication channel . 
function spoof chip twofold : 
1 transmit channel 
spoof chip xor 30 bit encrypted serial number 
secondary key variable . 
render serial number 
unrecoverable family key 
2 receive channel 
spoof chip xor incoming encrypted serial number 
secondary key variable assume integrity 
law enforcement block necessary local operation - 
checksum , sequence control , etc. . 
net result hide serial number . 
probable 
known plaintext pattern use filler block contain n 34 bit 
use generate u , u1 , u2 correctness law enforcement block 
determine family key f. whereas , one propose 
federal agencies deny f , could recover , 
correctness serial number test examine pad bit 
n e n ; f . 
one could selectively alter law enforcement block , 
mutilation could detect . 
better approach would mutilate 
entire law enforcement block . 
group encryption scheme 
des presumably skipjack , chance law enforcement block 
recover lessen . 
want bet transmission protocol recognize 
serial number decrypt target search ? 
digital transmission 
become widely available , would requirement clipper protocol 
transmission refuse contain mutilate law enforcement block ? 
one way avoid notice , would spoof protocol information block 
contain m , well spoof law enforcement block . 
goal use secure communication scheme , without redress 
detection key k interception contain encrypted within law 
enforcement block . 
datum stream return original state 
use clipper chip system require , proper operation . 
somewhat improbable entire protocol contain within 
clipper chip , yet likely sequence event test , 
require valid law enforcement block receive accept 
decrypt e m ; k ; 
spoof chip could implement anywhere protocol , include 
result serial datum stream . 
exist clipper product could 
. 
, high security encryption system right ? 
super could allow chip use without 
redress detection use chip , disclosure serial 
number . 
security must adequate deny serial number , 
recoverable means . 
one see use cut 
clipper phone , number unit high enough , 
steal . 
would mistake part authority , nice 
point privacy , serial number n associate 
particular clipper chip lot chip manufacturing 
distribution process . 
hopefully list known miss steal 
clipper serial number n encrypt f , protocol 
sufficient plaintext super encrypted clipper stream . 
could make difficult alter temporal 
spatial relationship clipper stream super encrypted 
stream . 
detection encrypted stream could tip use aforementioned 
scheme . 

could capture valid law enforcement block , use 
codebook , point valid 
law enforcement block store library utilize session key matching 
remainder transmission , could simply lie , yet 
deliver monitoring hostile force seemingly valid law enforcement 
block . 
capture law enforcement block would use authenticator , 
manually key encryption system . 
fend would require 
escalation examine protocol block transmission . 
m code stream might independently attack base knowledge 
clipper chip protocol reveal plaintext . 
could invalidate 
change temporal spatial relationship clipper m stream 
actual transmitted stream , control secure key 
generator synchronize endpoint . 
useful life time capture law enforcement block might limit 
base hostile force use target follow transmission 
interception . 
would need large number , , hey 
suppose million thing , right ? 
add time stamp 
encrypted law enforcement block probably impractical , want 
encryption chip real time clock ? 

entire idea law enforcement block invalidate . 
