: david 
subject : medical news part 
: david 
distribution : world 
organization : stat gateway service , 
lines : 577 
------------- cut ----------------- 
limit azt 's efficacy suggest use drug either sequentially 
drug kind aid treatment `` cocktail '' combine number 
drug fight virus . 
`` treat people azt alone 
happen real world anymore , '' say dr. mark jacobson 
university california -- san francisco . 
also , recent finding 
indicate hiv replicate rapidly lymph node infection , 
physician may begin push even harder early treatment hiv-infected 
patient . 

`` new infectious disease push '' american medical news vol . 
36 , . 
13 , p. 2 
center disease control launch worldwide network track 
spread infectious disease detect drug-resistant new strain 
time help prevent spread . 
network expect cost 
$ 75 million $ 125 million essential part clinton 
administration 's health reform plan , accord cdc outside 
expert . 
plan require cdc enhance surveillance disease 
united states establish 15 facility across world 
track disease . 

april 13 , 1993 

`` nih plans begin aids drug trials earlier stage '' nature vol . 
362 , no. , p. 382 , colin 
medical newsletter page 42 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
national institutes health announce start treat 
hiv-positive patient soon possible , result 
recent finding show hiv active body large number 
much earlier previously believe . 
anthony fauci , director 
u.s. national institute allergy infectious disease niaid , say , 
`` must address question treat people early possibly 
drug safe enough give people year 
get around microbial resistance . '' 
say delay would signify question 
safety resistance rather lack fund . 
fauci , co - 
author one two papers publish last week nature , reject 
argument one co-author , cecil fox , new discovery 
indicate `` $ 1 billion spend vaccine trial '' `` waste time 
money '' trial start long patient 
infected end quickly . 
john tew medical college 
virginia richmond claim new evidence strongly back argument 
early treatment hiv-infected patient . 
aids activist welcome 
new information say scientific community slow understand 
significance infection lymph tissue . 
`` know 
five year , glad public domain , '' say jesse 
dobson california-based project inform . 
peter duesberg , 
believe aid independent hiv result drug abuse 
west , say , `` several paradox away explanation aids -- even 
papers right . '' 

april 14 , 1993 

`` risk aids virus doctor find minimal '' washington post 
, p. a9 
risk hiv transmit infected health-care 
professional patient minimal , accord new research publish 
today 's journal american medical association jama . 
finding 
support previous conclusion health expert chance 
contract hiv health care worker remote . 
three study 
jama demonstrate thousand patient treat two hiv-positive 
surgeon dentist without become infected virus . 
study 
conduct separate research team new hampshire , maryland , 
florida . 
study start hiv-positive doctor dentist 
test patient willing participate . 
new hampshire study find 
none 1,174 patient undergo invasive procedure 
hiv-positive orthopedic surgeon contract hiv . 
maryland , 413 1,131 
patient operate breast surgery specialist johns hopkins hospital 
find . 
similarly florida , 900 1,192 dental 
medical newsletter page 43 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
patient , treat hiv-positive general dentist , 
test find negative hiv . 
florida researcher , lead 
gordon m. dickinson university miami school medicine , say , 
`` study indicate risk transmission hiv general 
dentist patient minimal setting universal 
precaution strictly observe . '' 
related story : philadelphia inquirer 
p. a6 

`` alternative medicine advocate divide new nih research program '' aids 
treatment news no. 172 , p. 6 gilden , dave 
new office alternative medicine national institutes 
health raise question nih 's commitment effort use 
unorthodox holistic therapeutic method . 
oam small division 
nih , budget $ 2 million dollar compare $ 10 
billion nih whole . 
addition , money available 
research grant even smaller . 
$ 500,000 $ 600,000 total 
available year 10 20 grant . 
, center 
natural traditional medicine washington , d.c. , say oam afraid 
become involve aids . 
`` look successful 
easy answer aids , '' say . 
also common perception 
oam focus field nih establishment find non-threatening , 
relaxation technique acupuncture . 
oam call 
advisory committee conference 120 people last year , aid 
community largely miss meeting . 
addition , activist ' 
general lack contact office add suspicion epidemic 
ignore . 
jon greenberg , york , say , `` oam advisory 
panel compose practitioner without real research experience . 

take several year accept nature research . '' 
nevertheless , dr. leanna standish , research director aid investigator 
bastyr college naturopathic medicine seattle , say , `` 
wonderful opportunity fund aids research . 
fair give 
office time gel , public insist much , much 
public relation . '' 

`` herpesvirus decimate soldier '' science news vol . 
143 , 
no. 14 , p. 215 , kathy a. 
scientist conduct test tube experiment find herpesvirus - 
6 attack human immune system 's natural killer cell . 
attack 
cause killer cell malfunction , diminish important component 
immune system 's fight disease . 
also , may 
factor immune disease , aids . 
1989 , paolo lusso 's research 
find attack another white cell , cd4 , 
primary target hiv . 
lusso also find 
medical newsletter page 44 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
kill natural killer cell . 
scientist previously know natural 
killer cell patient infect hiv work correctly . 
lusso 's 
research represent first time scientist indicate natural 
killer cell vulnerable kind viral attack , accord anthony 
l. komaroff , researcher harvard medical school . 
despite test-tube 
finding , scientist uncertain whether result occur 
body . 
lusso 's team also find produce cd4 receptor 
molecule provide access hiv . 
cd4 express surface 
receptor , make vulnerable hiv 's attack . 
researchers conclude 
cell exacerbate affect hiv . 

april 15 , 1993 

`` aid priority global village : editor '' journal 
american medical association vol . 
269 , no. 13 , p. 1636 gellert , 
george , dale f. 
health-care worker obligate responsible 
ensure politician understand dimension certain health 
problem , also commit related policy , write george gellert 
dale f. orange county health care agency , santa ana , 
calif. , emory university school public health atlanta , ga. , 
respectively . 
dr. berkley 's editorial american doctor care 
aids epidemic beyond united states detail several reason 
concerted interest country share combate aid . 

note aid lead hasten global health interdependence , 
illness . 
disease malaria many 
respiratory intestinal pathogen similarly inhibit economic 
development humanity act marginalize large population . 
berkley mention enormous social economic impact aids 
many develop country , increase need international 
assistance result . 
berkley also cite lack political 
aggressiveness toward aids epidemic first decade . 

new administration promise substantial difference approach 
international health development general , 
particular . 
vice president al gore propose book `` earth 
balance '' major environmental initiative include sustainable 
international development , program promote literacy , improve child 
survival , disseminate contraceptive technology access throughout 
develop world . 
enact , change policy could drastically 
change future worldwide health . 

`` aid priority global village : reply '' journal american 
medical newsletter page 45 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
medical association vol . 
269 , no. 13 , p. 1636 berkley , seth 
every nation tackle hiv early aggressively possible 
disease reach endemic state , even cost divert less 
attention illness , write seth berkley rockefeller 
foundation new york , n.y. , reply letter drs. gellert 
. 
although true disease aid , 
malaria respiratory intestinal illness , similarly inhibit 
economic development develop country deserve much attention 
get , berkley disagree contention aids 
receive much attention . 
hiv differ disease , 
develop country continue spread . 
endemic 
disease , outcome neglect intervention one year another 
year level needless disease death . 
aid 
increase spread , cost neglect , disease burden 
financially , much greater . 
intervention early part 
rampantly spread epidemic like hiv highly cost-effective 
individual infection prevent significantly interrupt transmission . 
berkley 
say agree gellert gigantic social 
economic effect aid need political leadership . 

conclude assertive political leadership need 
united states aids epidemic , even develop country 
high rate hiv infection complacency epidemic 
rule . 
medical newsletter page 46 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
articles 
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
first hiv vaccine trial begin hiv-infected child 
h h n e w 

u.s. department health human service 
march 29 , 1993 
first hiv vaccine therapy trial begin hiv-infected child 
national institutes health open first trial experimental 
hiv vaccine child infect human immunodeficiency 
virus hiv , virus cause aids . 
trial compare safety three hiv experimental vaccine 90 
child recruit least 12 site nationwide . 
volunteer must hiv - 
infected symptom hiv disease . 
hhs secretary donna e. shalala say initial study see `` 
hopeful milestone effort ameliorate tragedy hiv-infected 
child face certainty develop aids . '' 
anthony s. fauci , m.d. , director national institute allergy 
infectious disease nih office aids research , say trial `` 
first step find whether vaccine help prevent delay 
disease progression child hiv yet sick . '' 

vaccine prove safe , sophisticated question 
therapeutic potential assess phase ii trial . 
centers disease control prevention estimate 10,000 child 
united states hiv . 
end decade , world health 
organization project 10 million child infected worldwide . 
study enroll child age 1 month 12 year old . 
niaid , 
fund aids clinical trials group network , anticipate conduct trial 
nine site around country three site participate 
fund national institute child health human 
development . 
preliminary evidence similar study way infected adult show 
certain vaccine boost exist immune response 
medical newsletter page 47 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
stimulate new one . 
several year , however , researcher 
know response affect clinical course disease . 
result pediatric trial , know 218 , examine 
closely reason well . 
`` trial provide first insight 
immature immune system respond candidate hiv vaccine , '' say 
daniel hoth , m.d. , director niaid 's division aid . 
`` need 
information design trial test whether experimental vaccine prevent 
hiv infection child . '' 
united states , hiv-infected child live poor inner-city 
area , 80 percent minority , mainly black hispanic . 
nearly hiv-infected child acquire virus mother 
pregnancy birth . 
infected mother united states 
one four chance transmit virus baby . 
grow 
number woman childbearing age become expose hiv injection 
drug use infected sexual partner , researcher expect corresponding 
increase number infected child . 
hiv disease progress rapidly infant child adult . 
recent information suggest 50 percent infant bear hiv 
develop serious aids-related infection 3 6 year age . 

infection include severe frequent bout common bacterial illness 
childhood result seizure , pneumonia , diarrhea symptom 
lead nutritional problem long hospital stay . 
least half child trial 2 year age younger 
enable comparison immune response younger older 
participant . 
volunteer must well-documented hiv infection 
symptom hiv disease swollen lymph gland mildly swollen 
liver spleen . 
receive anti-retroviral immune - 
regulate drug within one month prior entry study . 
study chair john s. lambert , m.d. , university rochester medical 
school , co - chair samuel katz , m.d. , duke university school 
medicine , coordinate trial assist james mcnamara , m.d. , medical 
officer pediatric medicine branch niaid 's division aid . 
`` compare safety vaccine closely monitor child 
side effect , see one vaccine produce swollen arm 
fever , example , another , '' say dr. mcnamara . 
`` 'll also look 
whether low high dose vaccine stimulate immune response 
significant laboratory clinical effect . '' 
emphasize small 
study size preclude compare response effect among three 
medical newsletter page 48 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
product . 
trial test two dose three experimental vaccine make 
recombinant hiv protein . 
so-called subunit vaccine , genetically 
engineer contain piece virus , far prove well - 
tolerate ongoing trial hiv-infected adult . 
one vaccine make inc. meriden , conn. , contain -- 
protein give rise hiv 's surface protein -- plus alum adjuvant . 
adjuvant boost specific immune response vaccine . 
presently , alum 
adjuvant use human vaccine license food drug 
administration . 
vaccine -- one make genentech inc. south san francisco 
, joint venture chiron ciba-geigy , 
emeryville , calif. -- contain major hiv surface protein , gp120 , plus 
adjuvant . 
genentech vaccine contain alum , vaccine 
contain , experimental adjuvant prove safe effective 
phase vaccine trial adult . 
low dose product test first placebo 15 
child . 
twelve child assign random immunize 
experimental vaccine , three child give adjuvant alone , 
consider placebo . 
neither health care worker child 
tell receive . 
low dose , controlled testing higher dose 
experimental vaccine adjuvant placebo another group 15 child 
begin . 
child receive six immunization -- one every four week six 
month -- followed-up 24 week last immunization . 
information trial site eligibility enrollment , call 
aids clinical trial information service , , 9 a.m. 7 
p.m. , est weekday . 
service spanish-speaking information specialist 
available . 
information niaid 's pediatric research available 
office communications 301 496 - . 
nih , cdc fda agency u.s. public health service hhs . 

press inquiry , please call laurie k. . 
medical newsletter page 49 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
new evidence hiv cause disease independently 
news national institute dental research 
new evidence human immunodeficiency virus cause disease 
independently ability suppress immune system , say scientist 
national health . 
report hiv , opportunistic infection , cause scaling 
skin condition develop mouse carry gene hiv . 
although 
hiv gene active mouse , compromise animal ' 
immunity , researcher find . 
lead conclude hiv 
cause skin disease . 
finding support grow body evidence hiv cause disease 
without affect immune system , say lead author dr. jeffrey kopp 
national institute dental research . 
dr. kopp colleague 
describe study march issue aids research human 
retroviruses . 
develop animal model hiv infection difficult , since 
animal , include mouse , infect virus . 
bypass 
problem , scientist develop mouse , carry gene 
hiv well genetic material . 
scientist create transgenic mouse inject hiv gene mouse 
egg implant egg female mouse . 
result litter 
contain normal transgenic animal . 
institute scientist create mouse carry complete copy hiv 
genetic material . 
mouse , however , become sick die soon 
birth study depth . 
present study , scientist use 
incomplete copy hiv , allow animal live longer . 
transgenic animal develop scaling , wart-like tumor 
neck back . 
transgenic mouse develop thicken , crust skin 
lesion cover body , resemble psoriasis human . 

skin lesion develop normal , . 
study tissue take wart-like skin tumor show 
type noncancerous tumor call papilloma . 
although papillomavirus 
cause skin lesion , laboratory test show sign virus 
animal . 
tissue sample take sick mouse throughout study reveal 
presence molecule make hiv genetic material . 
medical newsletter page 50 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
evidence hiv protein production prove viral gene `` turn 
, '' active , say dr. kopp . 
scientist find evidence , however , compromise immunity 
mouse : increase white blood cell count sign common 
infection . 
fact hiv gene active animal ' immune 
system suppress confirm virus cause 
skin lesion , dr. kopp say . 
proof hiv gene involvement come test scientist 
expose transgenic animal ultraviolet light . 
light increase hiv 
genetic activity cause papilloma develop formerly healthy skin . 
papilloma formation response increase hiv genetic activity prove 
gene responsible skin condition , scientist say . 

lesion appear normal mouse expose uv light . 
transgenic mouse use study develop dr. peter 
dickie , national institute allergy infectious 
disease . 
collaborate study dr. kopp mr. charles , drs. 
nickolas dorfman , joseph bryant , abner , paul , ; 
dr. stephen katz national cancer institute ; dr. james rooney , 
formerly burroughs wellcome . 
medical newsletter page 51 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
clinical consultation telephone service aids 
h h n e w 

u.s. department health human service 
march 4 , 1993 
hhs secretary donna e. shalala today announce first nationwide 
clinical consultation telephone service doctor health care 
professional question provide care people hiv 
infection aid . 
toll-free national hiv telephone consulting service staff 
physician , nurse practitioner pharmacist . 
provide information 
drug , clinical trial latest treatment method . 
service 
fund health resources services administration operate 
san francisco general hospital . 
secretary shalala say , `` one goal project share expertise 
patient get best care . 
second goal get primary health 
care provider involve care people hiv aid , reduce 
treatment cost allow patient remain medical provider 
community social support network . 
currently , many provider refer patient 
hiv aid specialist provider experience . '' 
secretary shalala say , `` clinical expertise especially 
helpful physician provider treat people hiv aid 
community clinical site hiv expertise readily available . '' 
telephone number health care professional , 
accessible 10:30 a.m. 8 p.m. est 7:30 a.m. 5 p.m. pst 
monday friday . 
time , consultant try answer 
question immediately , within hour . 
time , physician 
health care provider leave electronic message , question 
answer quickly possible . 
health care professional may call service ask question 
related provide hiv care , include latest drug treatment 
information , clinical trial information , subspecialty case referral , 
literature search information . 
service design health 
care professional rather patient , family alternate 
source information material . 
health care professional call new service , call take 
either clinical pharmacist , primary care physician family nurse 
practitioner . 
staff member extensive experience outpatient 
inpatient primary care people hiv-related disease . 
consultant 
ask information , include cd4 cell count , current 
medication , sex , age patient 's hiv history . 
national service grow 16-month local effort 
medical newsletter page 52 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 
respond nearly 1,000 call health care provider northern 
california . 
initial project fund hrsa 's bureau health 
profession , community provider aids training project , 
american academy family physicians . 
`` provider expand knowledge , also improve quality 
care able provide patient , '' say hrsa administrator 
robert g. harmon . 
m.d. , m.p.h. `` project great resource 
health care professional patient serve . '' 
`` service open new means communication health care 
professional expert hiv care management , '' say hrsa 's associate 
administrator aid director bureau health resources 
development , g. stephen bowen , m.d. , m.p.h. `` provider treat people 
hiv aid access latest information new drug , treatment 
method therapy people hiv aid . '' 
hrsa one eight u.s. public health service agency within hhs . 
aids hotline numbers consumer 
cdc national aids hotline -- 
information spanish - 
aids clinical trial english & spanish -- 
medical newsletter page 53 
------------- cut ----------------- 
-- last part --------------- 
-- 
internet : fax : +1 
bitnet : fidonet > 15 
amateur packet : 
