: ed 
subject : government-mandated energy conservation unnecessary , study find 
: 
lines : 94 
government-mandated energy conservation unnecessary , study find 
washington , dc -- energy tax subsidized energy-efficiency 
measure support president clinton energy secretary hazel 
o'leary base faulty assumption , new study cato 
institute point . 
accord jerry taylor , cato 's director natural resource study , 
run source energy . 
world almost 10 
time proven oil reserve 1950 twice reserve 
1970 . 
proven reserve coal natural gas increase 
dramatically . 
standard living , population density , industrial 
structure control , united states less energy 
efficient japan energy efficient many group 
seven nation . 
energy independence provide little protection domestic oil 
price shock energy economy global . 
moreover , since 
cost oil represent 2 percent gross national product , 
even large increase price oil would little impact 
overall u.s. economy . 
market economy , average , 2.75 time energy efficient per 
$ 1,000 gnp centrally plan economy . 
utility ' subsidized energy-efficiency , know demand-side 
management program , encourage free rider , overuse compete resource 
input , competitive inequity . 
furthermore , dsm program 
reduce demand . 
taylor conclude government-mandated energy conservation impose 
unnecessary cost consumer waste , conserve , energy ; 
subsidize technology stymie , advance , 
gain energy conservation ; central control lifeblood 
modern society -- energy -- would transfer tremendous power state 
expense individual . 
`` energy conservation efficiency : case coercion '' . 
189 policy analysis series publish cato institute , 
independent public policy research organization washington , dc . 
available : 
cato institute 
224 second street se 
washington , dc 20003 

cato institute 
found 1977 , cato institute public policy research 
foundation dedicate broaden parameter policy debate 
allow consideration option consistent 
traditional american principle limited government , individual 
liberty , peace . 
end , institute strive achieve 
greater involvement intelligent , concerned lay public 
question policy proper role government . 
institute name cato 's letter , libertarian pamphlet 
widely read american colony early 18th 
century play major role lay philosophical foundation 
american revolution . 
despite achievement nation 's founder , today virtually 
aspect life free government encroachment . 
pervasive 
intolerance individual rights show government 's arbitrary 
intrusion private economic transaction disregard 
civil liberty . 
counter trend cato institute undertake extensive 
publication program address complete spectrum policy 
issue . 
book , monograph , shorter study commission 
examine federal budget , social security , regulation , military 
spending , international trade , myriad issue . 
major policy 
conference hold throughout year , papers 
publish thrice yearly cato journal . 
order maintain independence , cato institute accept 
government funding . 
contribution receive foundation , 
corporation , individual , revenue generate 
sale publication . 
institute nonprofit , tax-exempt , 
educational foundation section 501 c 3 internal revenue 
code . 
cato institute 
224 second street s.e. 
washington , dc 20003 
