: dr nancy 's sweetie 
subject : re : freemasonry southern baptist convention 
summary : update event . 
keyword : update , report , ` woof ! ' 
organization : rowan college new jersey 
disclaimer : sometime tonight , brandy turn 11 year old . 
e-mail present like rawhide chewy toy 
address . 
lines : 73 
recent development dispute masonry among 
southern baptists . 
post summary , 
suppose might useful . 
note necessarily 
agree disagree follow : present information . 

short summary : southern baptist name larry holly write book 
claim freemasonry religion incompatible christianity . 
mr holly 's father reject christianity , mr holly blame 
mason . 
sbc 's home missions board include interfaith witness department , 
study religion teach christ . 

year ago , order produce report masonry : conclude 
religion , therefore outside speciality . 
however , mr holly lead movement people oppose masonry , 
last year convention order hmb study masonry . 
get 
feel say `` get wrong answer last time , try 
better get answer want . '' 
anyway , bit infighting inappropriate action , 
dust settle report . 
nobody entirely happy , 
everybody seem willing live . 
side say thing 
: `` best go get current environment . '' 
report commend masons charity work , 
hospital burn center operate , well effort help 
elderly prevent drug abuse . 
report acknowledge many well - 
know christian masons , note many teaching 
masonry `` supportive christian faith practice '' . 
example 
latter include belief god , honesty integrity , 
masonic lodge incorporate explicit christian belief . 
hand , note aspect masonry incompatible 
southern baptist principle . 
include use title 
people consider sacrilegious , taking certain oath even though 
mean seriously , `` undeniably pagan '' writings 
masonic leader , implication masonic writings salvation 
achieve good work , racial discrimination practice many 
masonic lodge . 
note chagrin baptist church whole 
really place speak last point . 
report conclude masonry religion , say membership 
endorse censure , leave discretion individual . 
part variation among different masonic lodges , 
one may include element strongly christianity , another may 
. 
many southern baptist strong conviction priesthood 
believer autonomy local church , history probably 
influence report come . 

information glean `` religious herald '' , publication 
baptist general association virginia , `` baptists today '' , 
direct link religious organization . 
autonomy 
big issue among baptist . 
8 - 
neither report , whatever masonic document 
relevant issue , none come guarantee . 

mileage may vary . 
void prohibit . 
darren f provine 
milton : `` use finest baby frog , dew pick fly iraq , 
cleanse finest quality spring water , lightly kill , 
seal succulent swiss quintuple smooth treble cream milk 
chocolate envelope lovingly frost glucose . '' 
praline : `` may , still frog . '' 
