: cathy smith 
subject : letter liberal colleague -- l. neil smith 
distribution : usa 
: 
organization : colorado state university , fort collins , co 
lines : 147 
post cathy smith l. neil smith 
letter liberal colleague 
author 's note : `` adrian '' -- name change protect guilty -- 
author science fiction novelist work 
editor famous new york publishing house . 
dear adrian : 
way behind schedule current book , reply 
note -- criticize recent magazine interview give 
generally attack gun ownership -- necessarily consist 
mostly assertion free believe back 
evidence logic neither time energy present 
. 
write fully topic 
future . 
, 'll make sure get copy . 
many argument might make , futility danger 
delegate self-defense police see kates jan. . 
10 , 1985 wall street journal real effect prohibition , 
shift consumer handgun semiautomatic 
rifle item like sawed-off shotgun homemade bomb , ` ll 
limit comment newspaper clipping send 
note . 
first , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic process 
argument ground social utility . 
second , publication latter-day `` scientific study '' 
alter fact gun prohibitionist discuss 
interview -- annoy much process -- lie . 
third , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic process 
argument ground social utility . 
fourth , often happen thing , `` study '' 
support gun prohibitionist ' original numerical contention 
anyway , simply add new layer spurious claim older 
body lie , omission , distortion . 
fifth , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic process 
argument ground social utility . 
sixth , fact gun prohibitionist catch lie 
countless occasion carl bakal , author right keep 
bear arm , even confess publicly make value 
present `` study '' dubious , say least . 
seventh , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic 
process argument ground social utility . 
eighth , give lifelong service federal bureaucrat 
mention cynical sophistication fiction , 
better aware people `` progress '' -- 
design `` study '' prove whatever want -- outstrip 
ability collect meaningful datum . 
case point might agree 
fact take another kind prohibitionist 20 30 
year create `` study '' `` prove '' pornography cause crime . 
naive probably honest effort 50s 60 
clearly indicate contrary . 
ninth , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic process 
argument ground social utility . 
tenth , another reason doubt `` study '' human 
behavior austrian school economics demonstrate far 
complex unpredictable meaningfully quantify . 

attempt -- create public policy base 
result -- wreck civilization . 
eleventh , freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic 
process argument ground social utility . 
twelfth , `` study '' also worthless incorporate 
figure suicide , necessarily tragedy 
basically another individual right , sometimes ancillary social 
benefit . 
anything , perhaps suicide intervention 
criminal offense . 
thirteenth finally , national rifle association official 
quote article , whatever shortcoming 
many , correct instance : `` study '' meaningless 
freedom carry weapon choice 
natural , fundamental , inalienable human , individual , civil , 
constitutional right -- subject neither democratic process 
argument ground social utility . 
, adrian , even `` study '' valid , 
would deter lifelong personal objective see 
anyone weapon prefer carry however , 
whenever , wherever desire without ask anybody 's 
permission . 
ably assist gun prohibitionist 
, whose yawp invariably move previously unarmed 
people go buy first gun `` still '' . 
'68 gun control act , `` shooting fraternity '' 
view handgun incorrectly , turn inaccurate , 
ineffective toy . 
probably six million 
whole country . 
, thanks kennedy , metzenbaum , bradys , 
ilk -- america 's greatest sporting goods sales team -- 
probably manufacture least many every year . 
fascinating datum handgun control , et al. perfectly 
aware -- guess 'll ask 
real motive . 
look : arcane difficult art way , 
easier make fully automatic weapon semiautomatic ; 
fact still obtain weapon preference , 
self-loading pistol , thing keep pursue 
. 
even difficult , already 
quarter billion firearm america , estimate `` half life '' 
1000 year -- possibly stainless steel . 
gun gon na 
around long time , adrian , whether like . 
, paraphrase elmer keith , regardless law 
provide court decide , always go arm . 

always work see , well . 
bad news 
thousand -- perhaps even hundred thousand 
-- come . 
stop pass law , 
force arm secretly -- give 
practical alleged difference full automatic 
semiautomatic -- perhaps efficiently . 
point ? 
l. neil smith 
author : probability broach , crystal empire , henry martyn , 
forthcoming palla 
lever action bb , fidonet : 31.4 
libertarian second amendment caucus 
nra life member 
opinion , course , . 
