: hal 
subject : re : ld kermit 's reply : re : tony rose : free book mormon 
organization : hewlett-packard boise , idaho 
: tin version 
lines : 83 
robert weiss write : 
: 
lot stuff nicene creed delete read 
original . 
also leave ld netter 
take mr. weiss task use mormon doctrine declare 
word lds church teach doctrine . 
hopefully ld 
netter amiable explanation . 
since would good rebut mr. weiss state origin 
nicene creed status devine inspire say `` good '' 
prove discussion debate whether 
author creed inspire , leave time 
post follow thought author eugene england , 
professor english brigham young university . 
mr. england write 
follow part book review section people 's magazine spring 
1993 edition : 
`` conclude little sermon believe mormon -- 
human -- family get labeling reject 
term like feminist patriarchal , liberal conservative christian 
non-christian -- hal 8 ^ . 
tempt draw circle around 
set belief tradition style call american , exclude 
fit , may well consider perhaps central 
define characteristic good american might `` one draw 
exclusive circle '' -- surest way exclude 
central american ideal exclude . 
tempt 
draw circle around `` mormon '' `` christian , '' decide `` orthodox '' 
much agree , might well consider 
central pillar christ 's `` orthodoxy '' ability love 
unconditionally different include family . 
`` recently spend time `` christian '' bookstore california . 

service excellent , clerk customer smile , neat , 
, expect wholesome offering scriptural 
commentary , sentimental fiction , collection evangelistic sermon . 
dismayed find much shelf space give attack 
, often viciously -- whether political left , modern american 
culture , religion . 
whole section devote `` cult 
occult , '' might expect , mormonism right 
rubric indictment often author satanism . 
find 
could either rent buy english spanish copy god makers 
absurdly inaccurate , even libelous , popular dangerous 
anti-mormon film use technique even accusation 
nazi film scapegoat jews 1930 . 
`` seem one major indication person genuine convert 
christ redemptive love lack paranoia anxiety `` perfect 
love fear , '' john 4:18 . 
always please 
lds church engage attack faith , though find 
disheartening increase willingness individual mormons engage 
kind stereotype scapegoating -- even threat coercive 
action -- `` religious right wing '' launch year 
political left american cultural religious style like . 
fearful irony mormons take common cause 
people attack mormons -- people would , 
power , forcefully restrict mormons ' rights along 
believe evil . '' 
`` sermon '' address ld audience usually subscribe 
people 's magazine , would certainly apply 
rely mercy grace jesus christ bring back 
arm . 
even though lds church claim devine authority exercise principle 
restore gospel -- day christ , church claim 
perfection infallibility authoritative status 
lead church . 
, one , wish label `` christian '' , 
profess christian attack belief 
example way religion may interpret biblical 
scripture source different meaning implication 
mainstream christianity would give . 
, 
majority prove anything except collective 
voice louder . 
really critic lds church stand 
term kind biblical interpretation use proof counter 
lds church ' interpretation ! 
use someone els bias research truth 
whose say mixture ? 
authoritative tool 
disprove discredit fair anyone , least . 
let simply agree disagree , share belief adult discussion 
conversation , thereby uplift everyone . 
hal -- sign ! 
