: serdar 
subject : armenia deny historical fact turkish genocide . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 61 
article < > michael s. write : 
> maybe availability anon server people begin 
> speak ? 
sure hope . 
, unspeakable crime armenians must 
right . 
armenian invader burn sack fatherland 
, massacre exterminate population present 
world leave , armenian civilization . 
reliable western historian describe armenians ruthlessly 
exterminate 2.5 million muslim woman , child elderly people 
eastern anatolia collaborate enemy 
ottoman empire . 
unfortunately truth armenians know collaborator 
nazis world war ii , even today , 
member terrorism triangle preach instigate 
racism , hatred , violence terrorism among people . 
armenia continue anti-turkish policy follow 
way : 
1 . 
armenia deny historical fact turkish genocide 
order shift international public opinion away political 
responsibility . 
2 . 
armenia , employ terrorism revisionism 
triangle armenians , attempt call question 
veracity turkish genocide . 
3 . 
armenia also implement state-sponsored terrorism 
terrorism revisionism triangle attempt 
silence turkish people 's vehement demand protest . 
4 . 
use human , financial , governmental resource , 
armenia tool united states attempt silence 
terrorism , bribery subversive method , non-turkish supporter 
turkish cause , political , governmental humanitarian . 
use aforementioned method , armenian government 
attempt neutralize international diplomatic community 
make turkish case contemporary issue . 
yet despite effort armenian government terrorist 
revisionist organization , last decade , thanks struggle 
whose closest one systematically exterminate armenians , 
international wall silence issue begin collapse , 
consequently number government organization become 
supportive recognition turkish genocide . 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
