: steven bellovin 
subject : re : clipper corrupt cop wh proposal police point view 
organization : at&t bell laboratories 
lines : 65 
article < > , dwight write : 
> clear implication `` legal '' authorization 
> court order . 
leaky ? 
wiretap statute handy . 
's law say 
pen register . 
title 18 u.s. code . 
note 
vague s. 3125 1 b ... chance check 
50 u.s.c. 1801 yet . 
-- 
18 usc s. 3121 pen register 
s. 3121 . 
general prohibition pen register trap trace device 
use ; exception 
general . 
except provide section , person may 
install use pen register trap trace device without first 
obtain court order section title 
foreign intelligence surveillance act 1978 50 u.s.c. 1801 et seq. . 
... 
s. 3125 . 
emergency pen register trap trace device 
installation 
notwithstanding provision chapter , 
investigative law enforcement officer , specially designate 
attorney general , deputy attorney general , associate attorney 
general , assistant attorney general , act assistant attorney 
general , deputy assistant attorney general , principal 
prosecute attorney state subdivision thereof act pursuant 
statute state , reasonably determine -- 
1 emergency situation exist involve -- 
immediate danger death serious bodily injury person ; 

b conspiratorial activity characteristic organized crime , 
require installation use pen register trap 
trace device order authorize installation use 
, due diligence , obtain , 
2 grounds upon order could enter 
chapter authorize installation use `` may install 
use pen register trap trace device , within forty-eight 
hour installation occur , begin occur , order 
approve installation use issue accordance section 
title . '' 
b absence authorize order , use shall 
immediately terminate information seek obtain , 
application order deny forty-eight hour 
lapse since installation pen register trap trace 
device , whichever earlier . 
c know installation use investigative law 
enforcement officer pen register trap trace device 
pursuant subsection without application authorize order 
within forty-eight hour installation shall constitute 
violation chapter . 
