: new liberation news service < > 
subject : : fascism friendly face 
: : cdp 
: apr 14 1993 
lines : 164 
: new liberation news service 
subject : : fascism friendly face 
write 8:33 pm apr 14 , 1993 igc : 
---------- `` packet 3.11 '' ---------- 
fascism friendly face : rush limbaugh remind 
anyone ? 
daevid , madison edge 
`` main difference adolf hitler rush limbaugh 
hitler original show initiative . '' 
-- mort sahl tom snyder radio show , abc radio network , 
october 27 , 1992 . 
-- believe , plan comparative review 
mein kampf limbaugh 's transcribe rant , way thing ought 
sahl issue comparative review . 
usual , sahl 's 
independent sharp scalpel . 
effort dream compare favorably mort 's . 

least fairly popular premise ; everyone would mention 
idea think either divinely inspire least past due 
delivery . 
reaction base parallel obvious 
peripheral observer act false prophets . 

note galvanize oratorical skill , use 
passion generate political cult massive numerical proportion 
fact , limbaugh claim audience 12 million , almost 
identical number vote cast hitler april 1932 german 
election . 
use myopic social perspective build cult , 
enthusiastically amputate fact record fabricate 
ideological quilt . 
last point glaringly document passage opening 
page book . 
hitler 's example , page 5 , claim 
german nationalist terrorist leo schlageter bomb part railway 
line dusseldorf duisburg , catch act , 1923 
`` betray france representative government '' 
never factual foundation statement . 
fact , government reich prussia , well 
vatican , actively intervene save execution , almost 
succeed . 
limbaugh follow suit make hysterically sarcastic 
claim introduction `` school commencement 
ceremony many public place ... god unconstitutional . '' 

course , god official imposition particular concept 
god individual 's unconstitutional . 
limbaugh 
gleeful talent distortion want know . 
course , one would assume , compare two book , 
main point would way thing ought modern 
american mein kampf . 
really . 
time first german version 
mein kampf , hitler four month prison june , 1925 , 
try reorganize nazis . 
use book build dozen 
million follower . 
limbaugh , hand , come book 
build dozen million . 
twelve million go longer way 
weimar germany united states . 
thus , accurate parallel would limbaugh 's daily 
three-hour radio show american mein kampf , primary 
propoganda tool use pump angry volume ; way 
thing ought actually american triumph , 
translation fascist message different medium . 
also , 
print word important medium weimar germany , since 
radio still think impoverished german medium 
luxury 1925 . 
today , hand , americans likely 
spend seconds tune radio dial monetary charge drop 
$ 22 304 page transcript word . 
, mort sahl also observe radio night , 
radical right want limbaugh focal point 
propoganda . 
remember , sahl al haig conservative 
day . 
mort might know exactly rush 's equivalent 
hess book suggest ed mclaughlin , former president 
abc radio limbaugh 's partner efm media , radio 
program 's production company . 
mort veteran talk 
show , host new york , washington los angeles . 

know evil lurk heart major market media man . 
know 
limbaugh could collect audience 
opportunity place silver platter hand . 
limbaugh 
earn money honestly al capone ; almost worthy 
rico indictment . 
question social issue , overabundance 
material limbaugh book seem echo hitler 's venom . 

example : 
qualification control society 
hitler : `` host sometimes million people , 
individually less clearly distinctly guess truth , partly 
perhaps understand , one man author 's emphasis must step forward 
order form , force , waver world 
imagination great mass , granite principle , take fight 
sole correctness , playing wave free world 
think brazen rock uniform combination form arise '' 
page 577 . 
limbaugh : `` need media get ? 
... 
show devoted exclusively think ... phrase `` half 
brain tie behind back make even '' denote egress mental 
aptitude require engage demolish liberal disagree 
... might take four five year , convinced media 
slowly reluctantly come around way thinking , kick 
scream way . '' 
page 266 , 21 , 299 273 , respectively . 
religion basis nation 
hitler : `` world human culture civilization 
bind existence aryan . 

decline would lower upon earth dark veil time without 
culture ... dare lay hand upon highest image lord 
sin benevolent creator miracle help 
expulsion paradise . '' 
page 581 . 
limbaugh : `` america found judeo-christian country ... 
intellectual political elite often either hostile 
ambivalent toward religion ... people belief god best 
charming superstition manage ban prayer public school 
last thirty year . 
coincidence quality 
american education decline ever since ? '' 
page . 
popular culture reason social collapse 
hitler : `` fight poisoning soul set ... 
one look menu movie house , vaudeville 
theater ; one hardly deny right kind food ... 
theatre , art , literature , movie , press , window display 
must clean symptom rot world put 
service moral idea state culture . '' 
page 346 348 . 
limbaugh : `` today , hollywood trouble . 
reason 
hollywood forget audience ... make fun people 
believe god . 
ridicule traditional family , heterosexuality 
. 
disparage american hero . '' 
page 254 . 
news 
hitler : `` activity so-called liberal press work 
gravedigger german people german reich . 
one pass 
silence marxist papers lie ... task break 
people 's folkish national spine , order make ripe yoke 
slavery international capital master , jews . '' 
page 331 . 
limbaugh : `` element media jump 
bandwagon leftist cause . 
cynical journalist past 
replace many case enthusiastic cheerleader cause ... 
gulf war , cnn correspondent bernard shaw say cnn global 
network . 
take side . 
cant take side ? 
-- -- -- ! 
... 
realize freedom lie united states america 
therefore defend nation , hopelessly misguided 
, may suggest , flirt megalomania . '' 
page 270 268 . 

continue comparative excerpt certainly possible , 
ultimately depressing take one reading . 
put book , one undeniable fact 
haunt . 
1920s , adolf hitler feed depressed frightened 
german opiate hatred around ; turn , allow 
german hand collective national power nazis . 
1990s , 
rush limbaugh thing : distribute hatred 
depressed frightened americans ; turn , help american 
radical right maintain power base 12-year nightmare 
reagan-bush era come end , hope rebuild hope 
fascist states america . 
limbaugh repellant hitler , 
radical right utilize limbaugh gateway opiate . 
one 
wonder ultimate drug plan hook america . 
madison edge reach po box 845 , madison , wi - 
0845 ; . 
-- 30 -- 
