: anwar mohammed 
subject : lawsuit adl 
: . 

organization : school computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines : 142 
look like yigal busy ... 
rtw 2155 jewish group sue pass official information 
adrian croft 
san francisco , april 14 , reuter - nineteen people , include son 
former israeli defense minister moshe arens , sue anti-defamation league 
adl wednesday , accuse jewish group disclose confidential 
official information . 
richard hirschhaut , director san francisco branch adl , art 
dealer roy bullock former policeman tom gerard also name defendant 
suit , file san francisco county superior court . 
19 accuse adl b'nai b'rith , group dedicate fight 
anti-semitism , defendant secretly gather information 
, include datum state federal agency . 
suit allege disclose information , include 
government israel south africa , allege `` massive 
spy operation . '' 
action class-action suit . 
file behalf 12,000 
anti-apartheid activist opponent israeli policy 
plaintiff believe adl , bullock gerard gather information . 
representative adl san francisco immediately available 
comment wednesday . 
civil suit first legal action arise allegation 
gerard , former inspector san francisco police intelligence unit , pass 
confidential police file california political activist spy ring . 
fbi san francisco police investigate adl , bullock 
gerard affair last week search adl 's office san francisco 
los angeles . 
suit allege invasion privacy civil code california , 
prohibit publication information obtain official source . 
seek exemplary damages least $ 2,500 per person well 
unspecified damages . 
lawyer pete mccloskey , former represent 
plaintiff , say 19 plaintiff include arab-americans jews -- 
wife helen , also information gather . 
one plaintiff yigal arens , research scientist 
university southern california son former israeli defense 
minister . 
arens tell san francisco examiner see file adl keep 
1980s , presumably criticism treatment 
palestinians position israeli-occupied territory . 
accord court document release last week , bullock gerard 
keep information thousand california political activist . 
document , police investigator say believe adl pay 
bullock many year provide information league 
bullock receive confidential information authority . 
criminal charge yet file case . 
adl , bullock 
gerard deny wrongdoing . 
reuter ac kg cm 
apn 2202 adl lawsuit 
copyright , 1993 . 
associated press . 
rights reserve . 
catalina ortiz 
associated press writer 
san francisco ap -- arab-americans critic israel sue 
anti-defamation league wednesday , say invade privacy 
illegally gather information nationwide spy network . 
adl , national group dedicate fight anti-semitism , intend 
use datum discredit political view , accord 
class-action lawsuit file san francisco superior court . 
`` none guilty racism nazism anti-semitism hate 
crime , ` ism ' adl claim protect . 
none 
violent criminal way , '' say carol , education 
consultant develop program arab culture . 
19 plaintiff include yigal arens , son former israel defense minister 
moshe arens . 
younger arens , research scientist university 
southern california , say adl keep file 1980s presumably 
criticize israel 's treatment palestinians . 
`` adl believe anyone arab american ... speak 
politically israel least closet anti-semite , '' arens say . 
adl deny wrongdoing , could comment lawsuit 
review , say spokesman adl 's new york 
headquarters . 
fbi local police prosecutor investigate allegation 
adl spy thousand individual hundred group , include 
white supremacist anti-semitic organization , arab-americans , greenpeace , 
national association advancement colored people san francisco 
public television station kqed . 
information allegedly come confidential police government 
record , accord court document file probe civil lawsuit . 
charge file criminal investigation . 
lawsuit accuse adl violate california 's privacy law , 
forbid intentional disclosure personal information `` otherwise 
public '' state federal record . 
lawsuit claim adl disclose information `` person 
entity '' compelling need receive . 
elaborate . 
defendant include richard hirschhaut , director adl 's office san 
francisco . 
immediately return phone call seek comment . 
defendant san francisco art dealer roy bullock , alleged adl 
informant past four decade , former police officer tom gerard . 
gerard allegedly tap law enforcement government computer pass 
information bullock . 
gerard , retire police force , move philippines . 
bullock 's lawyer , richard breakstone , say could comment lawsuit 
yet study . 
1956 adl sue allegedly spy u.s. resident 
san francisco upi -- group california resident file suit wednesday 
charge anti-defamation league b'nai brith violate privacy 
spy israeli south african government . 
class-action suit , file san francisco superior court , charge adl 
leadership conspire local police official obtain information 
outspoken opponent israeli policy towards occupy territories 
south africa 's apartheid policy . 
adl refuse comment suit . 
suit also take aim two top local adl official retire san 
police officer tom gerard , claim violate privacy guarantee 
state constitution violate state confidentiality law . 
accord suit , gerard help adl obtain access confidential 
file law enforcement government computer . 
information file 
pass foreign government , suit charge . 
`` whole concept organize collection information base 
political viewpoint use government agency source information 
absolutely repugnant , '' say former rep. pete mccloskey , represent 
plaintiff . 
adl 's information-gathering network reveal publicly last week 
san francisco district attorney 's office release document indicate 
group spy 12,000 people 500 political ethnic group 
30 year . 
`` understanding adl consider activity 
sense oppose israel israeli action part responsbility 
investigate , '' say arens , research scientist university southern 
california . 
`` adl believe anyone arab american ... speak politically 
israel least closet anti-semite . '' 
fbi district attorney 's office investigate 
operation four month . 
19 plaintiff case include arens , son former israeli 
defense minister moshe arens . 
press release , plaintiff say alleged spy damage 
psychologically economically accuse adl try interfere 
freedom speech . 
