: cathy smith 
subject : weird science -- l. neil smith 
distribution : usa 
: 
organization : colorado state university , fort collins , co 
lines : 116 
post cathy smith l. neil smith 
weird science 
everyone know tell politician lie : lip 
move . 
may equally obvious 
politician politician -- phrase 
`` political science '' subject one interpretation . 
year ago , hear `` scientist '' worry new ice 
age might come , later `` nuclear winter '' -- smoke 
dust throw atmosphere full-scale international 
unpleasantness -- possibility . 
something like may even 
kill dinosaur . 
hear actual datum support , 
real-world event burning kuwaiti oil field tend 
discredit , mostly propaganda mean weaken 
value make america successful culture history , 
dinosaur probably die something like plague 
continent drift together , expose new germ . 
miss lot like , unless listen closely . 
prince william 
sound , site famous oil spill , mount st. helen 's 
suppose recover respective disaster least 
100 year . 
turn true , although would never 
know watch network nightly news cnn . 
fit 
agenda inform earth vast resilient , 
nature rougher could ever . 
, media entirely blame . 
ignorant 
science everything , trust `` scientist '' 
unscrew inscrutable . 
trouble today 's `` scientist '' 
agenda . 
nobody government , wellspring scientific wherewithal , 
go offer grant investigator state truthfully 
respectable evidence `` global warming '' . 
money 
power bureaucrat politician lie mass transit , 
hate automobile -- blame major cause mythical 
crisis -- source privacy freedom find intolerable . 
appear true `` acid rain '' , deliberate hoax cook 
environmental protection agency hate private 
industrial capitalism almost much car 
foist real scientist trickery depend 
specialist different field talk much . 
list go , always common , disreputable thread . 
`` ozone depletion '' , evidence even suspect 
contradictory acid rain global warming , 
last , desperate attempt indict private capitalism era 
state central planning command economy fail 
find final , withered leg teeter . 
decade anti-nuclear alarmism , rest foundation myth 
, fail erase fact nuclear 
power safest , cleanest , efficient source energy 
know mankind -- point , greater amount 
energy available individual society , 
freer individual -- society -- become . 
honest study effect individual gun ownership 
self-defense crime -- conduct investigator begin 
ideological opponent concept , show massive 
reduction latter result former -- 
suppress , recently california state government . 
media say recent epa `` discovery '' 
effect `` secondhand smoking '' , although harm non - 
smoker may detect , less order two 
magnitude associate frying bacon couple time 
week keep pet bird . 
enough make wonder whether 
ever anything claim smoking cause cancer . 
, course , real threat represent politically 
correct science . 
world dangerous place . 
would nice 
know hazard . 
never believe smoking healthy 
practice , , give lack credibility part today 's 
science , decide ? 
nicotine 
highly addictive , much attest experience . 
yet 
stress quit may riskier continue . 

way tell , thanks corrupting influence 
government money scientific establishment . 
two century ago , found father spare certain agony 
every nation world subject one 
time another , create legal barrier politics 
religion . 
time short-sighted individual group 
try lower barrier recently issue 
abortion , blood -- real human blood , hot smoking street 
-- wind shed . 
real human blood shed scientific issue , people 's 
life ruin loss , agency like epa , 
livelihood , property may take lifetime accumulate , 
disease cause toxin associate burn fossil fuel 
electrical power , thanks ban thing like cyclamate , 
die effect obesity . 
need , hope survive civilization two 
century , another barrier , constitutional separation 
state science -- include medicine . 
knowledge valuable ; 
real science languish lack funding . 
money 
simply come contributor unwilling pay lie , 
everyone benefit . 
l. neil smith 
author : probability broach , crystal empire , henry martyn , 
forthcoming palla 
lever action bb , fidonet : 31.4 
libertarian second amendment caucus 
nra life member 
opinion , course , . 
