: david davidian 
subject : turkey admit send arm pilot caught 
summary : oh , yes ... neutral turkey 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 57 
1242 turkey send light weapon aid azerbaijan 
seva ulman 
ankara , turkey upi -- turkey arm azerbaijan light weapon help 
fight armenian force struggle nagorno - karabakh enclave , 
newspaper hurriyet say thursday . 
deputy prime minister erdal inonu tell reporter ankara turkey 
respond positively request azerbaijan assistance . 
`` give positive response request '' azerbaijan , `` within 
limit capability , '' say . 
foreign ministry spokesman vural decline elaborate nature 
aid send azerbaijan , say within framework 
council security cooperation europe . 
hurriyet , publish istanbul , say turkey send light weapon 
azerbaijan , include rocket , rocket launcher ammunition . 
ankara begin send hardware visit turkey last week 
high-ranking azerbaijani official . 
turkey however rule , second 
time one week , would intervene militarily azerbaijan . 
wednesday , inonu tell reporter ankara would allow azerbaijan suffer 
defeat hand armenians . 
`` feel bind help 
azerbaijan , position right tell form 
help may take future , '' say . 
say turkish aid azerbaijan continue , `` whole world know 
. '' 
prime minister suleyman demirel reiterate turkey would get 
militarily involve conflict . 
foreign policy decision could 
base street-level excitement , say . 
immediate reaction ankara regional report , base 
armenian source yerevan , say turkish pilot officer 
capture shoot fly azerbaijani warplane 
helicopter . 
newspaper cumhuriyet say turkish troops digging along border 
armenia , military source deny report base claim local 
people gunfire hear along border . 
military action 
occur , source say . 
latest upsurge fight armenians azerbaijanis flare 
early month armenian force seize town later 
positioned outside fizuli , near iranian border . 
-- 
david davidian | `` explain turkish troops 
center regional studies | armenian border , 
p.o. box | even explain 1915 ? '' 
cambridge , ma | turkish mp , march 1992 
