: mohamad ebrahimi 
subject : pbs frontline : iran bomb 
: . 

organization : elect & comp engineering , u manitoba , winnipeg , manitoba , canada 
lines : 75 
would like share netter point pick pbs 
frontline program regard iran 's nuclear activity , air tuesday 
april 13 . 
sake brevity , 'll present separate 
point . 
1 - many western program , program lay bed 
misinformation throughout program , maximize effect 
program viewer . 
misinformation follow : 
- allege : '' late imam khomeini object shah 's technological 
advancement anti-islamic , thing change proof 
change iranian merchant sell personal computer . '' 
! 
ridiculous lie , one make objective 
islamic revolution topple shah state technology 
iran revolution . 
- iran equally accuse use chemical weapon iraqi aggressor 
never proof regard , nobody see 
iraqi soldier civilian injure iranian chemical weapon , 
contrary whole world see iranian soldier 
civilian , injure iraqi chemical weapon . 
- number martyr sacred defense iraqi 
aggression officially announce 117,000 even 
radical counter-revolutionary group claim iran iraq total 
one million dead , program claim iran alone one million 
dead left war . 
- translation iranian official ' talk 100 % true . 

example iranian head atomic energy say : '' hurt 
see iran subject unfriendly propaganda . '' 

translator say : '' hurt see iran unfriendly 
research . '' 
! 
2 - almost allege device material buy plan buy 
iranians countless dual usage , program try 
undermine non-military use , without reference iran 's 
big population inevitable need source energy 
near future current deficit electrical power . 
3 - whole program try show sharif university 
technology nuclear research center , even cameraman 
program know well country like iran without tightly close 
society one make nuclear bomb university ! 
take account 
scientific advancement sharif u. engineering field 
potential role improvement iran 's industry eventually 
life people , obvious persuade country 
prevent help university one 
scientific industrial effort . 
4 - key point program 's justification try 
much possible effort iaea numerous visit 
iran 's different site . 
say : `` sure place visit 
iaea real one '' ! 
, '' rely iaea 's 
report observation , fail see iraq 's nuclear 
activity '' know iraq try build 
nuclear weapon ! 
5 - extremely personal opinion , disgusting aspect 
program arrogance member us senate foreign affairs , 
william triplet , way talk , god talk 
absolute knowledge ! 
hope iranians aware gradual buildup 
country western media , hope iranian authority continue 
wise calculated approach regard international affair 
peaceful coexistence friendly nation . 
mohammad 
international atomic energy agency 
