: ella baff 
subject : get aids acupuncture needles 
organization : university california , berkeley 
lines : 44 
distribution : world 
: 
someone write express concern get aid acupuncture 
needle ... 
unless friend share fluid acupuncturist 
aid . 
. 
unlikely impossible get aids 
acupuncture needle . 
generally , even accidently inoculate , normal 
immune response enough effectively handle minimal contaminant 
involve acupuncture needle insertion . 
acupuncturist use disposable needle ... use throw away . 

one concerned transmission 
disease via route ... good business advertise `` disposable . '' 
needle tend lower quality however , 
poorly manufacture `` sharp '' opinion . 
tend snag insertion compare higher quality needle . 
choose use acupuncture give complaint , patient get 
set new needle sterilize treatment . 
risk hepatitis , hiv , etc. transmission could mistakenly 
use infected person needle accidently wrong 
patient ... clear labeling pay attention eliminate 
risk . 
better quality needle tend `` slide '' past vessel 
nerve avoid unpleasant painful snag . 
. 
hematoma ... use . 
acupuncture needle come many length thickness ... 
solid compare cousin . 
china , herbal western pharmaceutical occasionally inject 
meridian point purported tcm physiologic effect require 
hollow needle use inject fluid medicine . 
mean ... ... amount tissue , diameter needle bear , 
inject body would typical `` shot . '' 
skin 
. 
hand solid 
acupuncture needle insert , skin tend `` squeeze '' needle 
tip level insertion ` ' 
schmear away alcohol insertion , tend remain 
surface skin minimize invasion exterior . 
course tcm ... body 's exterior protect wei protective qi . 
. 
infection unlikely ... word ... normal inflammatory 
immune response accompany tissue damage incur puncture 
site . 
fairly certain friend transferable disease 
transmit via acupuncture needle insertion , would like know 
complaint consult acupuncturist ... know would harmful . 
. 
know would helpful . 
john , dc , ca 

