: phill 
subject : lesson nazis re : david irving - scholastic fraud 
lines : 112 
: 
organization : synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera 
respond post consider issue far outside 
scope revisionism principally consider political 
implication racist ideology inevitable outcome . 
thus 
tangentially relevant direct 
followup since principally consideration political 
lesson draw history nazi party deal . 
article < > , ken mcvay write : 
| > dawidowicz point , `` holocaust historians , '' harvard 
| > university press , 34-38 : 
| > 
| > '' ... nadir reach david irving 's `` hitler 's 
| > war . '' 
< 34 > amateur historian , whose reputation german apologist 
| > writer without regard accuracy truth win measure 
| > notoriety , < 35 > irving produce work intend show hitler 
| > kind animal secretary , `` probably 
| > weakest _ leader _ germany know century , '' 
| > murder jews even wish , murder commit 
| > behind back , without knowledge consent . '' 
let assume sake argument indeed case ? 

mean hilter would way less guilty mass murder 
rather participate active ardent 
supporter ? 
one important thing realize nazi system 
far evil single member . 
create nazi party 
murder machine would inevitably commit genocide , 
noone within strong enough prevent . 
remember hitler 
lead nazi party particularly powerful within 
oratory allow party come power . 
hitler renege 
upon expectation create within rank 
supporter would replace replace 
old guard beleive unable grasp intellectual implication 
rhetoric . 
party espouse style race supremacy ideology must 
consider dangerous evil nazi . 
idea one `` race '' 
people inherently superior another greatest goal 
humanity achieve racial perfection one logical outcome , 
gas chamber auschwitz . 
nazi party simply tale supremely evil single man 
lead entire country astray , beyond evil individual 
evil system self generating self perpetuate . 
hitler evil person build party ego 
cult center demonstration power , however 
mean entirely free political constraint 
propagandist work hard assert . 
myth racism 
produce strong government cure nation ill must 
emphatically reject . 
way must accept distinction 
govenrment demonstrate strength one able 
govern decisively manner beleive best . 
would accept 
latter `` strong '' government since display strength make 
necessary essential weakness . 
important understand nazi stupid 
amoral sense lack moral scruple . 
act 
manner spanish inquisition - murder torture cause 
morality . 
fault nazi lie axiom , 
logic implementation axiom . 
thus party 
national front david dukes klu klux klan front assert 
truth axiom must consider , advocate 
system would commit genocide . 
conclusion hitler responsible evil 
inescapable historical record . 
important though let 
conclusion reach nazi espouse set idea 
basically correct unfortunate proponent . 
evil 
concept race supremacy primary . 
although 
excuse individual culpability nevertheless secondary . 
matter promise make racist , supremacist party upon 
election promise break soon circumstance permit . 
require replacement leader originally make 
pledge , occur . 
hatred supreme . 
also create 
dynamic government allow reign . 
many 
government politics method provide justification 
existence demonstration importance . 

rhetoric hatred inevitably develop question action since 
continue existence object hatred inevitably reminder 
essential impotence politician . 
thus us raid tripoli 
little purpose beyond demonstration power . 
important 
realize quantum jump politics right 
right progression reinforcement 
popular action take basis . 
way leave trace route despotism 
assertion subjugation individual ideology . 
important though attempt understand dynamics 
political system use excuse participant . 

leader nation take supreme moral burden 
voluntarily require . 
thus take 
task without fundamental examination logical progression 
one set axiom conclusion moral crime . 
furthermore 
take duty one oblige put interest whole 
personal concern , even personal security . 
although inevitable party nazi , base upon hatred 
symbol power commit 
genocide inevitable succeed . 
member 
system ability create change within possibility 
change dynamic . 
realise individual hope 
control system mean accept individual 
affect system . 
phill 
phill 
