organization : city university new york 
: < > 
subject : catholic right & pat robertson 
lines : 49 
roman catholic conservative come open line 
pat robertson ultra right wing christian coalition . 
former secretary education william bennet , roman catholic , stand 
beside christian coalition 's spokesman ralph reed march 3 
conference washington . 
purpose conference 
publish result christian coalition poll design 
prove republican party would lose major support 
back away `` family value '' positon '92 convention . 
conservative catholics swing behind robertson 's organization 
political expertise , legal assistance high tech communication 
support . 
catholic campaign american , design catholic version 
moral majority , found marlene elwell tom wykes . 
ms. elwell robertson since day freedom 
council 1985 work presidential bid 1988 . 
ms. elwell hire domino 's pizza magnate , tom monaghan , 1989 
manage legatus , `` nonpolitical '' , catholic businessman 's group . 
membership limit catholics head corporation least $ 4 
million annual revenue . 
rely network wealthy contact 
legatus , elwell wykes little trouble form fund 
catholic campaign . 
campaign 's list national committee member include u.s. rep. 
robert k. dornan , phyllis schlafly eagle forum , lovely 
pat buchanan rev. richard j. neuhaus . 
also national 
committee keith fournier , catholic head pat robertson 's 
american center law justice . 
another catholic , thomas 
patrick monaghan , senior counsel robertson 's aclj , also 
active supporter catholic campaign . 
board director include frank shakespeare , broadcast exec 
former u.s. ambassador pope , wall street executive frank 
lynch , former reagan official richard v. allen , bishop rene gracida 
corpus christi mary ellen bork , wife unsuccessful supreme 
court nominee robert bork . 
winter 1992 issue _ campaign update _ organization 's 
quarterly newsletter , rocco l. martino , philadelphia business 
executive write : `` separation church state false premise 
must finally cast aside replace true meaning 
constitution . '' 
oh yes , organization 's `` national advisor '' 
catholic politician cardinal john j. o'connor new york . 
jack carroll 
