: serdar 
subject : muslims one one cruelly bayonet death armenians . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 93 
article < > charles write : 
> dare presume even right go around newsgroup 
> desire convince external position . 
news exception . 
` islamic holocaust ' 
much topic day . 
historical evidence prove 
period 1914 1920 , armenian government order , incite , 
assist participate genocide 2.5 million muslim people 
race , religion national origin . 
armenians perpetrate act 
sabotage , destroy telephone cable , blow bridge , block pass , 
set ambush , attack security station small turkish outpost 
behind ottoman army line one hand , ruthlessly 
attack turkish kurdish village , slaughter turkish population 
indiscriminately , woman , child , old young alike . 
innocent 
muslims one one cruelly bayonet death , massacre 
axis sword , else shut mosque school burnt 
alive see . 
widespread armenian massacre innocent muslims take place region 
van , kars , sivas , erzurum , bitlis , erzincan , mus , diyarbakir 
maras . 
ottoman army , fight prevent russian invasion , 
also deal armenian genocide squad cowardly hit 
behind . 
armenian genocide muslims spread part 
eastern anatolia . 
start late 1914 , armenians commit 
widespread massacre genocide eastern anatolia , arena 
leave armenians . 
almost every turkish town village 
erzincan suffer large scale massacre genocide 
armenians turkish genocide document armenian , 
russian , american , british , ottoman , german , austrian french 
journalist officer observe first genocide century 
commit blood-thirsty armenian genocide squad . 
ottoman army , liberating trabzon , bayburt , erzincan , erzurum , 
kars region russians , see city 
village destroy burn , people slaughter , massacre . 
massacre conduct armenians , become black stain 
humanity , shocked disgusted even russian , british , german , 
austrian , french american authority . 
almost every ottoman document relate armenian massacre 
cruelty . 
inhuman treatment , cruelty , atrocity , genocide 
armenian genocide squad perpetrate innocent moslem turkish 
kurdish people , sufficiently reflect historical document . 
even today seventy-five year later , terrifying scream 
victim cruelty hear . 
source : document : volume 1919 . 
`` document : 76 , '' archive : , cabin : 109 , drawer 
: 3 , file : 346 , section : 427 1385 , contents : 3 , 52-53 . 
lt. colonel seyfi , general headquarters , second section , 
istanbul - dr. stephan 
` neue wiener tagblatt ' - vienna , ` pester lloyd ' ` local ' - berlin , 
` algemeen ' - amsterdam , ` vakit ' - istanbul . 
`` closely follow two week withdrawal russians 
armenians turkish territory armenia . 
although two month 
elapse since clearing territory armenian gang , 
observe evidence cruelty armenians 
almost every step . 
village trabzon erzincan 
erzincan erzurum destroy . 
corpse turks brutally cruelly 
slay everywhere . 
accord account able 
save life escape mountain , first horrible fearful 
event begin russian force evacuate place 
take armenian gang . 
russians usually treat people 
well , people fear intervention armenians . 

place take armenians , however , massacre begin . 
clearly announce intention clear call 
armenian kurdish land turks thus , solve nationality 
problem . 
today opportunity meet austrian german soldier 
escape russian prison camp come kars 
alexander paul ... russian officer try save 
turks clash russian officer armenian gang . 
erzurum , see terrible . 
almost whole city 
destroy . 
smell corpse still fill air . 
although 
speculation armenian gang murder austrian german prisoner 
well , could get support evidence regard , 
proof murder turkish prisoner war . '' 
dr. stephan 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
