: david davidian 
subject : armenia says could shoot turkish plane 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 85 
1045 armenia says could shoot turkish plane 
david ljunggren 
moscow , april 16 , reuter - armenia accuse turkey friday fly weapon 
x troops across armenian airspace azerbaijan strongly hint 
might try shoot plane , local journalist yerevan say . 
separately , itar-tass news agency say armenian force halt latest 
offensive swallow one-tenth azerbaijan send tension 
transcaucasian region soar . 
journalist armenian capital quote armen , head 
armenian defense ministry press center , say ankara send 
plane 15 time day azerbaijan arm troops . 
look though armenian leadership warn turkey 
action , '' journalist quote 
say . 
`` step pursue future recourse appropriate 
measure . 
necessary means , include modern anti-aircraft 
unit . '' 
turkey , share border armenia , support azerbaijan 
conflict mainly nagorno-karabakh region 
2,500 people kill since fight erupt 1988 . 
turkish foreign ministry say friday far send one plane 
azerbaijan contain humanitarian aid . 
turkish foreign ministry spokesman thursday would comment directly 
report hurriyet newspaper first consignment rocket , rocket 
launcher , ammunition light weapon arrive azerbaijan turkey . 
say turkey send 30 truck day carry troops 
arm border azeri autonomous territory nakhichevan , 
fly across armenian airspace azeri capital baku . 
`` responsibility possible consequence bear 
country afford military assistance airspace , '' say . 
armenia deny formal role conflict , say troops 
involve fighting enclave . 
tass say karabakh force decide friday suspend offensive 
along entire front . 
`` karabakh authority reportedly ready give independent 
inspector chance see spot enclave 's 
leadership strive achieve ceasefire , '' agency say . 
armenian president levon ter-petrosyan call two-stage ceasefire 
karabakh arrive belarus capital minsk friday summit 
commonwealth leader . 
`` first stage settlement involve ceasefire secure 
protection karabakh population , '' tass quote say . 
least 10 ceasefire broker conflict 
collapse . 
`` second stage involve discuss find solution 
legal issue : , clarification status nagorno-karabakh , '' 
say . 
republic declare full independence last year move 
recognize country . 
armenia insist separate karabakh delegation take part future 
peace talk , something azerbaijan reject . 
local news agency baku say friday interior minister iskender 
gamidov , fiery nationalist hardliner territorial dispute 
armenia , resign . 
turan news agency say quit thursday clear office . 
agency say would replace military commandant 
baku , police major-general abdullah . 
official 
confirmation . 
-- 
david davidian | `` explain turkish troops 
center regional studies | armenian border , 
p.o. box | even explain 1915 ? '' 
cambridge , ma | turkish mp , march 1992 
