: donald r. newcomb 
subject : re : gun control ... 
: 
organization : university southern mississippi 
lines : 145 
first , would like say much appreciate literate 
erudite individual mr. rutledge discuss topic . 
frankly , poster refuse even approach topic 
original understanding bill rights detail 
writings era . 
refreshing . 
second , must apologize leave discussion several day . 
brigade 's quarterly drill weekend need attend 
several matter pertain state militia . 
people seem feel concept militia - 
place 20th century . 
sure swiss 
would agree think perhaps discussion militia , 
organize unorganized , fit defense plan state , 
mississippi . 
please assume describe something peculiar 
one southern state . 
instance , commonwealth massachusetts 
well organize militia , member report , maintain stock 
riot gun machine gun . 
law states vary 
probably similar . 
title 35 mississippi code define militia `` able-bodied 
citizen state age seventeen 17 sixty - 
two 62 year ... '' . 
militia divide 3 class : national 
guard , mississippi state guard unorganized militia . 

national guard strange sort fish constitutional perspective . 
try state militia federal reserve . 
discussion 
`` '' arrangement quite interesting 
somewhat beyond scope discussion . 
suffice , 
date , national guard cease constitutional standing 
anything federal reserve force . 
mississippi , states , maintain purely state organize 
militia . 
mississippi call state guard . 

states may call something else . 
state guard exist 
cadre training corps make mostly experienced officer 
senior nco serve volunteer without compensation . 
drill 
monthly basis company battalion level , brigade 
quarter annual drill whole organization . 

cadre strength 694 . 
skeleton 
organization without flesh . 
muscle sinew need 
come unorganized militia . 
time invasion , insurrection calamity governor order 
activation state guard . 
take place call 
first make volunteer fill organization either 
contingency strength full strength . 

event sufficient number people fail volunteer , law 
provide detailed instruction conducting draft 
unorganized militia . 
size state guard specify 
law , rather executive order . 
one time , organize militia 
mississippi consist 68 regiment . 
needless say , state 
armory brim weapon equip 
force . 
historical precedent arm force use 
mostly private arm militiamen . 
hope demonstrate state militias far 
long dead anachronism may wish claim . 
> , simple state people right `` join well 
> organize militia . '' 
also state militia 
> meet twice year clearly `` well organize . '' 

> state readiness claim people `` right '' 
> , state readiness expect militia state 
> hamilton . 
regard hamilton : take hamilton 's opinion sole 
representative opinion found father , 
choose highly skewed sample set . 
hamilton extreme federalist 
end political spectrum . 
, coxe henry , 
choose represent end . 
many contemporary feel 
idea standing army sort even select militia 
`` train band '' contrary egalitarian nature govern - 
ment strive perfect . 
compromise reach 
provide small army , refinance every two year , 
iron-clad protection militia , remain ever , 
`` terrible irresistible '' . 
protection include : state control , federal ; limitation 
federal utilization militia i.e. execute law , suppress 
insurrection repel invasion , right keep bear 
arm prevent british try lexington . 
limitation eventually prove onerous federal govern - 
ment skirt creation national guard . 
national guard create one simple reason : 
constitutional militia prove unreliable fight 
war imperial expansion . 
e.g. spanish-american war . 

constitution provide militia could employ 
federal government limited purpose . 
far back 
war 1812 , militia unit refuse leave united states 
territory attack enemy . 
, constitutional 
authorization conscription anyone federal 
military militiamen particularly protect . 
war 
every american leave country arm volunteer . 
national guard act require new 
member also enlist army , exist soldier 
`` grandfather '' . 
least one `` grandfather '' individual 
refuse go france 1918 refusal uphold 
federal courts . 
mr. rutledge state second amendment apply 
member `` well organize '' militia . 
however , 
history american militia show relatively period 
militia come close meet either messrs. rutledge hamilton 's 
definition `` well organize '' . 
period peace 
french & indian war revolution many company simply stop 
drilling reconstitute prior revolution . 
perhaps mr. rutledge would care argue ancestor 
answer lexington alarm forfeit rights 
unit drill year 1760 . 
would 
bold . 
, wish repeat . 
national guard , merit , 
militia describe constitution mr. hamilton 
mr. henry mr. coxe . 
fact federal government 
many states delinquent attention organize 
constitutional militias diminish neither 
responsibility rights militia detail 
constitution . 
misunderstand nature purpose militia one 
error creep modern reading constitution . 

constitution prohibit states keep `` troops ship war 
time peace '' . 
hear insist prevent states 
maintain militia , come people today 
understand meaning word 18th century usage . 
today call large vessel `` ship '' 18th century word 
describe particular kind vessel . 
`` ship '' large vessel 
three mast carry square rig sail . 
`` brig '' two 
mast . 
contemporary usage states prohibit keep 
largest warship day , capable global operation . 
today 's 
equivalent might prohibition states ' keep nuclear missile . 
`` troops '' time mean full-time professional military organization . 
study contemporaneous writings bear . 
least one respect , agreement mr. rutledge ; 
personally involve maintenance advancement militia 
viable means defense modern society , frequently 
bemused saddened friend associate wax poetic 
place unorganized militia become strangely silent 
scarce invite attend drill state 's militia . 
-- 
donald r. newcomb university southern mississippi 
way tax spend , tax 
spend . 
democrats office . 
