: serdar 
subject : armenian scholar extermination 2.5 million muslim people . 
: serdar 
distribution : world 
lines : 288 
article < > eduard wiener write : 
> post english , mike ? 
> appear mean -- `` milan , seem 
> greek fuck . '' 
turn ? 
truth need tell 
. 
armenians course witness armenian genocide 
2.5 million muslim people voice truth 
suppress today hollow din campaign 
terrorism revisionism triangle fascist 
armenian government . 
well , see library . 
problem ? 
source : k. s. papazian , `` patriotism perverted , '' press , boston , 1934 . 
p. 17-18 . 
`` seem terrorism co-national prominent 
part revolutionary activity leader caucasus . 
organized fight turks , chieftain successful 
fight armenian opponent turkey , caucasus , 
often defenseless innocent . '' 
p. 38 . 
`` fact remain , however , leader turkish armenian section 
carry promise loyalty 
turkish cause turks enter war ... call send 
armenian volunteer fight turks caucasian front . '' 
p. 38 . 
`` thousand armenians world , flock standard 
famous fighter , kery , dro , etc. . 
armenian volunteer 
regiment render valuable service russian army year 
. '' 
source : `` adventure near east , 1918-1922 '' a. rawlinson , 
jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 first publish 1923 
287 page . 
memoirs british officer witness armenian genocide 2.5 
million muslim people 
p. 184 second paragraph 
`` receive definite information horror 
commit armenian soldiery kars plain , 
able judge want discipline 
treatment detach party , wire tiflis 
` interest humanity armenians 
leave independent command moslem population , , 
troops without discipline effective control , 
atrocity constantly commit , 
justice eventually hold morally responsible ' . '' 
p. 177 third paragraph 
`` armenian troops , , pillage destroy 
moslem village plain ... '' 
`` caravan refugee meanwhile constantly arrive 
plain , whole moslem population flee much 
personal property could transport , seek obtain security 
protection ... '' 
p. 178 first paragraph 
`` moslem village plain search 
arm armenians everything take cloak 
search , many moslems kill , horrible 
torture inflict endeavor obtain information 
valuable hide , armenians aware 
existence , although unable find . '' 
p. 179 first paragraph 
`` shortly afterwards head miserable column appear . 

200 person , mostly old man woman child , 
ox-cart , pony , donkey , carry worldly 
possession , except sheep drive . 
leader interview bekir bey , tell keep farther 
hill , would able cross frontier 
turkey unmolested enemy . '' 
p. 181 first paragraph 
`` armenians plain attack kurdish line 
artillery , probably large force support . '' 
p. 175 first paragraph 
`` arrival british brigade follow announcement 
kars province allot supreme council 
ally armenians , announcement make , 
british troops completely withdraw , armenian occupation 
commence . 
hence trouble ; armenians commence 
wholesale robbery persecution muslem population 
pretext necessary forcibly deprive arm . 
portion province lie plain able 
carry purpose , manner 
refer due course . '' 
follow news turan news agency 
bring service : 

p.o. box 
berkeley , ca 
fax : 
email : 
azerbaijan 's government appeals compatriots world 
60 refugee perish escape lorries 
situation region 
armenian army continue attack fizuli 
press-conference chief president azerbaijan 
azerbaijanis picket front ministry foreign affairs russia 
picket moscow 
attack armenian units stop 
statement ministry foreign affairs azerbaijan 
azerbaijan 's government appeals compatriots world 
baku april 5 turan : today , azerbaijan 's government appeal 
azeris world connection escalation 
armenian aggression republic . 
stress appeal experience five-year fight 
independence imperial chain show grim process . 
war 
azerbaijan pretence protect human rights 
armenians upper , mean destruction 
azeri village town , occupation 10 percent territory , 60 
thousand new refugee addition 500 thousand already place . 
price fight liberty russian imperial rule , 
say document . 
azerbaijan 's government appeal compatriot make every 
effort inform people world truth azerbaijan , 
assistance solve problem face young state . 
stress appeal urgent need medicine , 
food , experience doctor financial help settle refugee 
, fizuli lachin region , render medical aid 
sick wound man . 
-- o -- 
60 refugee perish escape lorries 
baku april 5 turan : today , evacuation 
region , 60 refugee board two lorry kill fire 
armenian tank road leave . 
accord press 
- service azerbaijan president , one survive tragedy . 
-- o -- 
situation region 
baku 5 april turan : attempt evacuate rest 15,000 
citizen , encircle alpine village region 
go within last twenty-four hour . 
evacuation helicopter 
could land near village shell 
armenian side existence fog . 
measure undertake 
food medicine encircled people . 
several hundred people succeed within last twenty-four hour 
get region via mountain range . 
refugee 
settle neighbor region azerbaijan ganja . 
authorities face serious problem render refugee medical 
aid food . 
number refugee 40,000 people . 
azerbaijan capable handle disaster magnitude . 
-- 0 -- 
armenian army continue attack fizuli 
baku 5 april turan : region fizuli azerbaijan , 
situate outside territory nagorno , 
subject heaviest attack armenian army fourth day . 

30 armored technique 500 soldier enemy take 
part attack . 
armenian unit break defense line azeri force occupy 
ruling height town shell `` grad '' installation , 
morning . 
heavy destruction town 20 
people dead . 
population town hastily evacuate . 
-- 0 -- 
press-conference chief president azerbaijan 
baku 5 april turan : fifty-five thousand refugee region 
take 11 o'clock april 5 , inform chief 
president azerbaijan , arif aliev , today . 
journalist also inform press-conference 
international red cross help accept render refugee medical 
aid . 
urgent need supply refugee tent , food 
medical aid . 
arif aliev inform result ongoing tragedy bring 
latest aggression armenia , leadership azerbaijan 
intend appeal azerbaijanis treasure human life 
world help . 
concern reaction international community aggression 
armenia , aliev say department state usa express 
anxiety leadership armenia . 
participant peace effort nagorno 
csce , , strongly blame aggression 
armenia azerbaijan . 
leader inform tomorrow ambassador 
azerbaijan russia , hikmet , conduct press-conference 
moscow . 
detailed information latest event region 
azerbaijan give press-conference . 
-- 0 -- 
azerbaijanis picket front ministry foreign affairs russia 
baku 5 april turan : azerbaijanis , live moscow , picket 
front building ministry foreign affairs russia . 
picket conduct token protest participation 
russian unit capture region azerbaijan 
armenians . 
100 people take part picket , organize 
azerbaijani society `` '' . 
-- 0 -- 
picket moscow 
baku 5 april 30-40 member `` '' society picket 
building permanent representation azerbaijan moscow . 
picketer demand return land , annex 
azerbaijan . 
ambassador azerbaijan moscow , hikmet classify 
action provocation aim create inter-ethnic 
conflict azerbaijan . 
mark talk turan 
correspondent rule connection 
armenian aggression region anti- 
azerbaijani action `` '' society moscow . 
also 
marked 30-40 people mean nationality 
whole . 
society , `` '' , register moscow 1990 , 
demand creation state , never exist 
northern territory azerbaijan . 
-- 0 -- 
attack armenian units stop 
baku 5 april turan : attack armenian army town 
fizuli , begin last twenty-four hour , stop , inform 
ministry defense azerbaijan . 
result undertake measure , 6 tank number 
attacker destroy . 
advance unit armenian army 
retreat several kilometer . 
chairman parliament , isa gambar , visit town 
fizuli meet commander unit national army 
local citizen , today . 
-- 0 -- 
statement ministry foreign affairs azerbaijan 
baku 5 april turan : ministry foreign affairs azerbaijan 
issue statement connection aggression armenia 
region azerbaijan . 
state statement regular unit armed 
force armenia capture town april 3 . 
attack armenian unit , begin march 27 deep 
territory azerbaijan still continue . 
armenia occupy 
present 7500 sq.km territory azerbaijan . 
spread armenian aggression far away upper 
prove conflict enter 
specially dangerous phase . 
result non-recognition 
armenia aggressor international community , marked 
document . 
stress statement unit 7th russian 
army participate armenian attack . 
cast doubt 
sincerity russian mediation effort find peaceful 
solution conflict . 
mark conclusion aggressive action armenia 
wreck negotiation process aegis csce . 
document contain appeal world community stop 
armenian aggression use political economic sanction 
aggressor . 
-- 0 -- 
serdar 
` close road mountain pass 
might serve way escape turks 
proceed work extermination . ' 
- 1919 
` soviet armenia today longer exist 
single turkish soul . ' 
sahak melkonian - 1920 
