: david davidian 
subject : astir azerbaijan daghestan 
summary : ask fight armenians karabakh & unification 
organization : center regional study 
lines : 106 
0000 astir 

associated press writer 
, azerbaijan ap -- 600,000 azerbaijan russia 
begin clamor state , threaten turmoil tranquil corner 
caucasus . 
region escape ethnic warfare neighbor nagorno-karabakh , 
abkhazia ossetia , could become next minority former 
soviet union fight independence . 
, muslim descendent nomadic shepherd , angry 
conscription young man fight azerbaijan 's 5-year-old undeclared 
war armenia . 
also want unite region azerbaijan russia , 
effectively one breakup soviet union create national 
border line map . 
rally 3,000 march protest conscription 
demand separate `` '' alarm azerbaijani government . 
official baku , capital , deny rumor police shoot six 
demonstrator death . 
government announce strict security measure 
begin cooperate russian authority control movement 
live across border dagestan region russia . 
visitor , center life , find town quiet soon 
protest . 
child play outdoors crisp mountain air . 
sunday bazaar , man heavy coat dark fur hat gather 
discuss grievance range high custom duty russian border 
war say . 
`` draft , go , '' say shamil , gold tooth 
glint sun . 
`` must fight war azerbaijanis ? 

nothing armenia . '' 
3,000 people die war , center dispute 
territory nagorno-karabakh , 150 mile southeast . 
malik kerimov , official mayor 's office , say 11 300 local 
draft 1992 serve . 
`` police force people go , '' say . 
`` afraid 
uprising could back dagestan . '' 
man agree police fire demonstrator , 
disagree protest come . 
say occur spontaneously rumor spread azerbaijan 
draft 1,500 man region , 75,000 live . 
say rally order gen. muhieddin , leader 
underground separatist movement , , base dagestan . 
`` organize demonstration family come distraught 
draft order , '' say kerim babayev , mathematics teacher belong . 
`` hope reunite peacefully , approach everyone -- azerbaijanis , 
russians . '' 
early 18th century , form two khanate , sovereignty , 
azerbaijan dagestan . 
roam freely sheep 
green hill mountain two khanate . 
1812 , area join czarist russia . 
1917 , 
come soviet rule . 
disintegration soviet union , 
600,000 face first time strict border . 
half remain dagestan half newly independent azerbaijan . 
`` pay custom , car , wine , '' complain mais 
, small trader . 
goods , lay ground bazaar , 
include brandy , stomach medication plastic shoe dagestan . 
`` want country , '' say . 
`` want able move easily . 
baku listen . '' 
physically , hard outsider distinguish 
azerbaijanis . 
many village , live side side , work 
job intermarry degree . 
distinctive language , mixture arabic , turkish 
persian strong guttural vowel . 
azerbaijan officially support cultural preservation 10 largest 
ethnic minority . 
weekly newspaper elementary 
school class language . 
autonomy different question . 
succeed separate 
azerbaijan , would set precedent minority , 
talish south , tats nearby mountain avars eastern 
azerbaijan . 
-- 
david davidian | `` explain turkish troops 
center regional studies | armenian border , 
p.o. box | even explain 1915 ? '' 
cambridge , ma | turkish mp , march 1992 
