: lee lady 
subject : re : science methodology : homeopathy ... tradition ? 
summary : ask wrong question fundamental error . 
keyword : science error turpin 
organization : university hawaii mathematics dept 
expire : mon , 10 may 1993 gmt 
lines : 80 
avoid mistake certainly highly desirable . 
however also 
widely acknowledge perfectionism creativity . 
ordinary life , perfectionism carry beyond certain point 
indicative psychological disorder . 
extreme case , 
perfectionist become paralyze possible mistake might 
make unable even leave house . 
science , want discover much truth world possible 
also want much certainty possible 
discovery . 
usually trade-off two 
-- search scope search certainty . 
18th century mathematician demand total rigor newton 
leibniz would probably calculus today , neither 
two could explain calculus way really make sense , since 
lack concept limit . 
fact , lack 
rigorous foundation , make number error use calculus . 
hundred year later able give solid 
ground idea newton leibniz . 
nonetheless , newton 
leibniz undoubtedly science mathematics gain great 
deal application important idea lose 
mistake make . 
article < > 
dick king write : 
> somebody write : 
doubt einstein use formal methodology . 
... 
> ... 
> also propose numerous experiment perform would distinguish 
> universe special relativity hold one . 
> ... 
> einstein play rule , demand hypothesis put 
> exist specific experiment could disprove . 
rule accord many post 
. 
accord poster `` support 
carefully design controlled study science . '' 
take extreme , believe attitude empirical study 
everything idea nothing result complete 
science . 
one thing , insistence elaborate expensive methodology 
result sort scientific , outside 
establishment lack institutional corporate support 
chance obtain hearing . 
least believe 
intention arbiter scientific methodology . 
nonetheless , 
one result . 
although institutional science 
certainly produce many wonderful result , think foolish 
arrogance scientist believe one outside establishment 
-- use less perfect empirical methodology -- ever come 
anything worthwhile . 
furthermore , big buck approach science promote think 
one significant error science : choose investigate 
question readily handle currently 
fashionable methodology one readily get institutional 
corporate sponsorship instead direct attention 
question seem fundamental significance . 
instance , certain question easily investigate 
statistical method relevant factor quantitative . 
one could argue case almost question many 
area psychology . 
opinion , perusal many papers 
result attempt psychologist force question 
statistical framework give lie russell turpin 's 
assertion current scientific method `` avoid known error . '' 
think ask wrong question probably fundamental 
error science . 
ignore potentially valuable idea one 
. 
think scientific journal full 
many study impeccable empirical method 
worthless wrong question ask first place . 
-- 
argument behaviorist , psychology seem 
less like science collection compete religious sect . 

