: nigel allen 
subject : library congress host dead sea scroll symposium april 21-22 
lines : 96 
library congress host dead sea scroll symposium april 21-22 
: national assignment desk , daybook editor 
contact : john sullivan , , lucy , 
library congress 
washington , april 19 -- symposium dead sea 
scroll hold library congress wednesday , 
april 21 , thursday , april 22 . 
two-day program , cosponsor 
library baltimore hebrew university , additional 
support project judaica foundation , hold 
library 's mumford room , sixth floor , madison building . 
seating limit , admission session symposium 
must request write see note . 
symposium hold one week public opening 
major exhibition , `` scroll dead sea : ancient library 
qumran modern scholarship , '' open library congress 
april 29 . 
view fragmentary scroll archaeological 
artifact excavate qumran , loan israel antiquities 
authority . 
approximately 50 item library congress special 
collection augment material . 
exhibition , view 
madison gallery , aug. 1 , make possible generous 
gift project judaica foundation washington , d.c. 
dead sea scrolls focus public scholarly 
interest since 1947 , discover desert 13 mile 
east jerusalem . 
symposium explore origin meaning 
scroll current scholarship . 
scholar diverse 
academic background religious affiliation , offer 
disparate view , ensure lively discussion . 
symposium schedule include open remark april 21 , 
2 p.m. , librarian congress james h. billington , 
dr. norma furst , president , baltimore hebrew university . 
co-chair 
symposium joseph baumgarten , professor rabbinic literature 
institution , baltimore hebrew university michael , 
head , hebraic section , library congress . 
geza vermes , professor emeritus jewish study , oxford 
university , give keynote address current state 
scroll research , focus stand today . 
second 
day , closing address give shmaryahu talmon , 
propose research agenda , pick theme qumran 
study might proceed . 
wednesday , april 21 , speaker include : 
-- eugene ulrich , professor hebrew scriptures , university 
notre dame chief editor , biblical scroll qumran , `` 
bible qumran ; '' 
-- michael stone , national endowment humanities 
distinguish visit professor religious study , university 
richmond , `` dead sea scrolls pseudepigrapha . '' 
-- 5 p.m. 6:30 p.m. special preview exhibition 
give symposium participant guest . 
thursday , april 22 , begin 9 a.m. , speaker include : 
-- magen broshi , curator , shrine book , israel museum , 
jerusalem , `` qumran : archaeological evidence ; '' 
-- p. kyle mccarter , albright professor biblical ancient 
near eastern study , johns hopkins university , `` copper 
scroll ; '' 
-- lawrence h. schiffman , professor hebrew judaic study , 
new york university , `` dead sea scrolls history 
judaism ; '' 
-- james , professor theology , university notre 
dame , `` messianism scrolls early christianity . '' 
thursday afternoon session , 1:30 p.m. , include : 
-- devorah dimant , associate professor bible ancient jewish 
thought , university haifa , `` qumran manuscripts : library 
jewish community ; '' 
-- norman golb , rosenberger professor jewish history 
civilization , oriental institute , university chicago , `` 
current status jerusalem origin scrolls ; '' 
-- shmaryahu talmon , j.l. professor emeritus biblical 
study , hebrew university , jerusalem , `` essential ` commune 
renew covenant ' : qumran studies proceed ? '' 
close 
symposium . 
ample time question answer period 
end session . 
also wednesday , april 21 , 11 a.m. : 
library congress israel antiquities authority 
hold lecture esther , consult conservator , 
israel antiquities authority , `` preserve dead sea scrolls '' 
mumford room , , james madison memorial building , 
library congress , 101 independence ave. , s.e. , washington , d.c. 
------ 
note : information admission symposium , 
please contact , write , dr. michael , head , hebraic 
section , african middle eastern division , library congress , 
washington , d.c. . 
-30 - 
-- 
canada remote systems - toronto , ontario 

