: eric smith 
subject : re : hilter homosexual 
organization : netcom on-line communication services guest 
lines : 106 
clayton cramer write : 
> < > , eric smith write : 
gene w. smith write : 
> # say : 
> # 
> # # 1 people vote hitler , become reich chancellor , good 
> # use bully boy attack communist , 
> # hitler become become reich chancellor people vote 
> # . 
sure mean imply , think 
> # would bring . 
> hitler become chancellor people vote political 
> party . 
huge difference parliamentary system . 
statement common misconception , true . 

german weimar system , chancellor necessarily leader 
largest reichstag party ; chancellor appoint president 
generally leader coalition party could form effective 
majority reichstag . 
beyond , implication hitler rise 
chancellorship majority germans want nazi rule false 
well . 
president hindenburg appoint hitler chancellor january 
1933 , german people show particular desire lead either 
hitler nazi party . 
result march 1932 election 
president , closest hitler ever come direct election : hindenburg 
49.6 % , hitler 30.1 % , 13.2 % , duesterberg 6.8 % . 
runoff election 
april result : hindenburg 53 % , hitler 36.8 % , 10.2 % . 
see hitler personally support third 
german voter . 
similarly , nazi party never receive 37 % vote 
reichstag election . 
occur july 1932 . 
november 1932 election 
nazis lose two million vote 34 seat , 230 196 
608 reichstag . 
, socialists 121 
communists 100 . 
communists gain 11 seat , german national 
party , support previous government , pick million 
nazis ' lose vote gain 15 seat 52 . 
think large 
party catholic center party know many seat 
think decline , numerous small party . 
thus nazi vote decline time hitler appoint 
chancellor . 
bring hitler power demand german people 
hitler nazis run thing , inability party 
put difference behind favor form effective government 
country . 
germany enduring democratic tradition , 
parliamentary system lack effective center party favor 
interest majority population . 
instead 
number small party unable put aside specific 
objective order combine nazis , end 
democratic process . 
fact , part problem 
party substantial representation , like communists , also 
end democratic process , different result mind , 
generally mind see parliamentary democracy go . 
germany already chancellor majority coalition 
five month nazis largest reichstag party , 
certainly danger revolution favor nazis . 
anything nazis start get desperate fail 
get enough support make hitler president popular vote 
begin decline . 
hitler hindenburg 's first choice chancellor , even 
second choice . 
first , von papen chancellor since june 1932 . 

november election nazis lose seat , hindenburg first prevail 
von papen remain chancellor . 
intrigue behind back 
support lack . 
hindenburg turn von schleicher , 
become chancellor two month . 
eventually unable hold 
together work coalition party oppose nazis , refuse 
participate government lead nazi chancellor . 

nazi leadership , particularly gregor strasser # 2 man 
party time , want participate coalition government . 
, 
know party 's support wane , figure best hope gain 
power lay undermine democratic process . 
nevertheless , country 
govern seven month chancellor nazis , even though 
nazis largest reichstag party . 
failure man 
achieve work coalition due inability coalition 
party work together . 
's william shirer put _ rise fall third reich _ : 
cardinal error germans oppose nazism 
failure unite . 
crest popular strength , 
july 1932 , national socialists attain 37 percent 
vote . 
63 percent german people express 
opposition hitler much divide shortsighted combine 
common danger must know would overwhelm 
unless unite , however temporarily , stamp . 
true , german people support hitler become chancellor . 

change fact overwhelming support 
power . 
german people cry hitler 
take , matter bad economic condition . 
leftist party 
probably support total nazis . 
hitler use fact passively actively willing see 
government paralyze means take . 
----- 
eric smith 


: 
