: rich young 
subject : re : problem nutrasweet aspartame 
originator : 
: sasquatch 
: 
organization : clinical diagnostics division , eastman kodak company 
lines : 76 
article < > heather write : 
> nutrasweet synthetic sweetener couple thousand time sweeter 
> sugar . 
people concern chemical body produce 
> degrade nutrasweet . 
think form formaldehyde know 
> methanol pathway body use eliminate 
> substance . 
real issue whether level methanol formaldehyde 
> produce high enough cause significant damage , toxic 
> living cell . 
say consume . 
... 
september 1992 issue tuft university diet nutrition 
letter , three page article artificial sweetener . 

follow excerpt deal specifically nutrasweet . 
reproduce without permission 
controversy aspartame begin six year ago england , 
group researcher find aspartame , market 
tradename nutrasweet , appear stimulate appetite , 
presumably , eating calorie long run 
person simply consume sugar . 
researcher ask group 
95 people drink plain water , water , 
sugared water , say overall feel hungriest 
drink artificially sweeten beverage . 
study receive widespread media attention stir 
good deal concern among public . 
however , result questionable best , since researcher 
go measure whether increase appetite 
actually translate increase eating . 
two 
necessarily go hand hand . 
year follow , dozen study examine 
effect aspartame appetite -- eat -- conduct . 
review every one , director 
laboratory study human behavior johns hopkins 
university , barbara rolls , ph.d. , conclude consume aspartame - 
sweeten food drink associate increase 
amount food eat afterward . 
one artificial sweetener typically accuse cause 
cancer aspartame . 
certainly blame 
host ill . 
since introduction 1981 , government 
receive thousand complaint accuse cause 
everything headache nausea mood swing anxiety . 
still , year careful scientific study conduct 
sweetener 's enter market fail confirm 
bring adverse health effect . 

centers disease control government agency charge 
monitor public health , american medical association 's 
council scientific affairs , food drug administration 
give aspartame , one study food additive , 
clean bill health . 
grant , fda set forth `` acceptable daily intake '' 
50 milligram aspartame per kilogram body weight . 
exceed 
limit , however , 120-pound 55 kg . 
woman would take 
2,750 milligram aspartame -- amount 15 
soda pop , 14 cup gelatin , 22 cup yogurt , 
55 serving hot cocoa , ... 
175-pound 80 kg . 
man would consume 4,000 milligram 
sweetener -- amount 22 soda pop 32 cup 
yogurt -- go limit . 
chart aspartame content 
select food omit 
one small group people must certain stay away 
aspartame : bear rare metabolic disorder call 
, pku . 
estimate one person every 12,000 
15,000 unable properly metabolize essential 
amino acid aspartame call phenylalanine . 
child 
consume , build body ultimately cause 
severe problem mental retardation . 
help people 
pku avoid substance , label soda pop 
food must carry warning `` : 
contain phenylalanine . '' 
- rich young kodak 's opinion . 
