: danny weitzner < > 
subject : re-invent crypto policy ? 
eff statement 
: < > 
: fri , 16 apr 93 gmt 
: 
organization : electronic frontier foundation 
: v1 d17 
lines : 122 
april 16 , 1993 
initial eff analysis clinton privacy security proposal 
clinton administration today make major announcement 
cryptography policy effect privacy security 
million americans . 
first part plan begin 
comprehensive inquiry major communication privacy issue 
export control effectively deny people easy access 
robust encryption , law enforcement issue pose new technology . 
however , eff concerned administration already 
reach conclusion one critical part inquiry , 
public comment discussion allow . 
apparently , 
administration go use leverage get telephone 
equipment vendor adopt voice encryption standard develop 
national security agency . 
so-called `` clipper chip '' 80-bit , 
split key escrowed encryption scheme build chip 
manufacture military contractor . 
two separate escrow agent would 
store user ' key , require turn law enforcement upon 
presentation valid warrant . 
encryption scheme use 
classify , chip available manufacturer 
incorporation communication product . 
proposal raise number serious concern . 
first , administration adopt solution conduct 
inquiry . 
clipper chip may secure 
product . 
vendor developer may better scheme . 
furthermore , rely government sole source 
clipper chip . 
rather , independent chip manufacturer 
able produce chipset base open standard . 
second , algorithm trust unless test . 
yet , 
administration propose keep chip algorithm classify . 
eff 
believe standard adopt ought public open . 

public confidence security standard 
open independent , expert scrutiny . 
third , use use , dual escrowed system may 
prove reasonable balance privacy law enforcement 
need , detail scheme must explore publicly 
adopt . 
give people confidence safety key ? 
disclosure key third party waive individual 's fifth 
amendment rights subsequent criminal inquiry ? 

many question administrations proposal raise fail 
answer . 
sum , administration show great sensitivity importance 
issue plan comprehensive inquiry digital privacy 
security . 
however , `` clipper chip '' solution ought 
consider part inquiry , adopt 
discussion even begin . 
detail proposal : 
escrow 
80-bit key divide two escrow agent , 
hold 40-bit key . 
manufacturer communication device 
would require register key two independent escrow 
agent . 
key tie device , however , person use . 
upon presentation valid court order , two escrow agent would 
turn key part law enforcement agent . 
accord 
presidential directive issue , attorney general 
ask identify appropriate escrow agent . 
administration 
suggest one non-law enforcement federal agency perhaps 
federal reserve , one non-governmental organization could choose , 
agreement identity agent yet . 
classify algorithm possibility back door 
administration claim back door -- mean 
government could break code without secure key 
escrow agent -- president tell 
back door classify algorithm . 
order prove , 
administration source interested arrange all-star crypto 
cracker team come , security arrangement , examine 
algorithm trap door . 
result investigation would 
make public . 
clipper chipset design produce , 
secret contract national security agency two private 
firm : vlsi . 
nsa work plan underway 
four year . 
manufacturing contract let 14 month ago . 
government market driver 
order get market move , show government believe 
security system , fed first big customer 
product . 
user include fbi , secret service , vp al 
gore , maybe even president . 
today 's commerce department press 
briefing , number people ask question , though : would 
private organization individual adopt classified standard 
independent guaranty security freedom trap door ? 
comprehensive policy inquiry 
administration also announce commence 
inquiry policy issue relate privacy protection , encryption , 
law enforcement . 
item consider include : export 
control encryption technology fbi 's digital telephony 
proposal . 
appear inquiry conduct 
national security council . 
unfortunately , however , presidential 
directive describe inquiry classify . 
public involvement 
process promise , term yet specify . 
information contact : 
jerry berman , executive director 
daniel j. weitzner , senior staff counsel 
full text press release fact sheets issue 
administration available eff 's ftp site . 
danny weitzner senior staff counsel , eff 
+1 
