: yigal arens 
subject : adl spy case 
organization : sciences institute 
lines : 222 
distribution : world 
: 
los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 . 
p. a1 . 
new details extensive adl spy operation emerge 
inquiry : transcript reveal nearly 40 year espionage 
man infiltrate political group 
richard c. paddock , times staff writer . 
san francisco -- outside world , roy bullock small-time 
art dealer operate house castro district . 

reality , undercover spy pick garbage 
amass secret file anti-defamation league nearly 40 
year . 
code name prominent jewish organization cal , 
successful infiltrate political group choose 
head arab-american delegation visit rep. nancy pelosi 
francisco washington , d.c. , office . 
time , cal tap phone message system white 
aryan resistance learn hate crime . 
police source 
obtain privileged , personal information least 1,394 people . 
meet surreptitiously agent south african government 
trade knowledge crisp , new $ 100 bill . 
among secret bullock david gurvitz , former 
los angeles-based operative , divulge extensive interview 
police fbi grow scandal nation-wide 
intelligence network operate anti-defamation league . 
official anti-defamation league , deny improper 
activity , say cooperate investigation . 

refuse discuss bullock gurvitz . 
transcript interview -- among nearly 700 page document 
release san francisco prosecutor last week -- offer new detail 
private spy operation authority allege cross line 
illegal territory . 
time , intelligence activity take air 
launder payment , shred document , hotel rendezvous 
foreign agent code name like `` ironsides '' `` flipper . '' 
one occasion , gurvitz recount , receive tip 
pro-palestinian activist board plane bind haifa , 
israel . 
although anti-defamation league publicly deny tie 
israel , gurvitz phone israeli consular official warn . 
shortly afterward , another official call gurvitz back debrief 
. 
court papers also add mystery tom gerard , former cia 
agent san francisco police officer accuse provide 
confidential material police file anti-defamation league . 
gerard flee philippines last fall interview 
fbi , leave behind briefcase police locker . 

contents include passport , driver 's identification 
card 10 different name ; identification card name 
four american embassy central america ; collection blank 
birth certificate , army discharge papers official stationery 
various agency . 
also briefcase extensive information death squad , 
black hood , apparently use interrogation , photo 
blindfold chained man . 
investigator suspect gerard police source give 
adl confidential driver 's license vehicle registration information 
vast number people , include many 4,500 member one 
target group , arab-american anti-discrimination committee . 
case obtain datum law enforcement officer would 
constitute felony , san francisco police inspector ron roth note 
affidavit search warrant . 
anti-defamation league , self-described jewish defense civil 
rights organization , acknowledge long collect information 
group anti-semitic , extremist racist . 
adl 's 
fact-finding division , head new york , enjoy 
reputation thoroughness often share information 
police agency journalist . 
however , evidence seize bullock 's computer show keep file 
least 950 group political stripe , include 
american civil liberties union , earth island institute , united 
farm workers , jews jesus , mother jones magazine , center 
investigative reporting , bo gritz president committee , 
asian law caucus aids activist group act . 
computer file also include information several member 
congress , include pelosi , house armed services committee chairman 
ron dellums former republican rep. pete mccloskey 
bay area . 
statement , bullock gurvitz say anti-defamation 
league collect information political activist los 
angeles area 30 year . 
say work closely 
three los angeles county sheriff 's deputy specialize 
intelligence work , los angeles police department anti-terrorism 
expert san diego county sheriff 's department intelligence 
officer . 
spokesman los angeles sheriff 's department say know 
nothing contact deputy adl . 
los 
angeles police department , earlier refuse cooperate 
investigation , san diego sheriff 's department decline 
comment . 
bullock , 58 , one intriguing character spy 
drama . 
although jewish , begin work undercover 
volunteer adl fbi indiana 1954 read 
book man infiltrate communist party . 
bullock move los angeles 1960 give pay position 
adl intelligence operative , tell authority . 

mid-1970 , move san francisco continue spy operation 
west coast . 
keep identity secret , salary always funnel 
beverly hills attorney bruce i. hochman -- never 
miss payment 32 year , bullock say . 
`` investigator adl . 
investigate 
anti-democratic movement , '' bullock say . '' 
... officially , 
contract worker bruce hochman . 
way , league would 
officially connect . '' 
bullock say become master infiltrate group communists 
arab-american gay radical skinhead , usually use 
name adopt alias elmer fink . 
`` one kind , '' tell police . 
recent year , however , adl affiliation increasingly become 
know , one point confront skinhead arm 
shotgun threaten kill . 
mid-1980 , help san francisco police solve bombing 
synagogue comb trash extremist cory phelps 
match handwriting sample threatening letter obtain 
police . 
part investigation , become close 
friend gerard , time work san francisco 
police intelligence division . 
bullock frequently search garbage target group . 

fbi report note investigate one palestinian group : 
`` bullock would write report base find trash , 
would share report gerard . 
bullock also give trash 
gerard gerard examine . 
gerard would later return trash 
bullock . '' 
wide range source , bullock compile file 
individual 950 political group . 
gerard , whose file 
contain many identical entry , keep file people . 
1987 , bullock gerard begin sell vast wealth 
information south african government . 
bullock tell 
meeting secretly south african agent san francisco hotel 
receive envelope fill thousand dollar new $ 100 
bill . 
bullock insist information sell consist datum cull 
public source . 
rewrite innocuous item publish 
san francisco chronicle columnist herb caen south african 
bishop desmond tutu wife prominent attorney melvin belli -- 
submit work . 
bullock say gerard sell official police intelligence . 
bullock say split $ 16,000 south african government 
evenly gerard , tell one point , `` may gay 
straight arrow . '' 
interview police fbi , bullock talk freely 
engage certain activity prosecutor say would appear 
violate law . 
example , bullock admit receive driver 's license record 
criminal history gerard 50 people -- fraction 
confidential police datum find computer . 
say 
gerard give complete san francisco police department intelligence 
file various nazi group suppose destroy 
department policy . 
bullock say also receive confidential fbi report nation 
islam later shred anti-defamation league 's san 
francisco office . 
bullock seem proud `` operation eavesdrop , '' use 
pay informant , code-named scumbag , help tap white aryan 
resistance phone message network , listen message leave 
member right-wing group . 
`` short time , 
wonderful , '' tell police . 
los angeles , adl operative gurvitz hire four year ago 
`` '' keep intelligence file occasionally go 
undercover meeting target group . 
among thing , tell san francisco authority , los angeles 
adl office keep record arab-american `` anti-israel 
leaning '' write letter newspaper express 
sentiment . 
gurvitz recently force resign incident 
attempt misuse adl intelligence network seek revenge 
rival get job gurvitz want simon wiesenthal center 
holocaust studies . 
gurvitz get confidential police datum rival 
threaten expose jewish spy right-wing hate 
group . 
gurvitz since begin cooperate police fbi 
probe , provide considerable information adl operation . 
unlike bullock , assure subject 
investigation . 
gurvitz decline father los angeles interview 
times . 
bullock 's attorney say client would comment . 
-- 
yigal arens 
tv make ! 

