: 
subject : commercial space news # 22 
: 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines : 666 
commercial space technology investor number 22 
number twenty-two irregular series commercial 
space activity . 
commentary include thought 
development . 
sigh ... usual , get behind get column 
write . 
plead exigency current dynamics 
space biz . 
column put together lunch hour 
house quiet night , datum quickly build 
lot stuff go . 
comply lot 
information happening since last column , go 
work keep one readable length . 
fun ! 
contents : 
1 - us commercial space sales flatten 1993 
2 - delta win two key launch contract 
3 - commercial remote sense venture get doc `` go-ahead '' 
4 - investment firm calls gd 's space biz `` still good investment '' 
5 - ariane predict dip launch demand 
6 - ntsb investigate pegasus launch aborted abort 
7 - another pegasus competitor announce 
8 - georgia launch site drop plan 
9 - spain 's capricornia launcher still proceed 
10 - signs launch reservation swedish space corp 
11 - china taiwan joint satellite venture report 
12 - south korea announce national move space technology 
13 - space technology index march 
final note 
article 
-------------------------------------------------------------------- 
1 - us commercial space sales flatten 1993 
us department commerce project us commercial space sale 
remain flat 1993 , current datum show 2 percent 
growth 1992 . 
publish `` us industrial outlook 1993 '' 
release january , revenue 1993 us space 
business currently project $ 4,890 m. 
contrast previous year us commercial space sale 
show double digit growth rate , year 's project result 
drive us satellite manufacturing industry , sale 
project drop 12 satellite worth $ 1,300 m 1992 7 
satellite worth $ 670 m 1993 . 
us industrial outlook also 
project u.s. commercial launcher face flat demand come year , 
predict 1993 revenue increase 10 percent 
$ 450 m , future sale `` adversely affect downward 
revision department defense launch plan . '' 
offset flat launch revenue satellite delivery , 
revenue fix mobile satellite service project 
increase $ 1,900 m , primarily drive increase revenue 
broadcast cable tv network . 
similarly , remote sense product 
sale project increase $ 250 m 1993 15 % . 
us commercial space revenue 1989 1990 1991 1992 r 1993 e 
commercial satellite 900 1,000 1,100 1,300 670 
satellite service 750 800 1,200 1,500 1,900 
fix 700 735 1,115 1,275 1,520 
mobile 50 65 85 225 380 
satellite ground equip 790 860 1,350 1,400 1,560 
mobile equipment 40 85 280 352 ??? 
commercial launch 150 570 380 450 450 
remote sense datum service 125 155 190 215 250 
private microgravity research lab -- -- -- -- 60 

total annual revenue 2,715 3,385 4,220 4,815 4,890 
r revise datum 1992 e estimate datum 1993 
commentary : first look us commercial 
space industry expect 1993 . 
general , bad 
report -- bad news concentrate satellite 
manufacture area . 
, change satellite worth 
$ 100 m apiece substantially influence annual 
projection . 
look forward several year , market 
sector retain strong sale us firm 
successful regain international market share satellite 
business . 
furthermore , sale satellite ground equipment go 
next revision datum , expect release mid - 
year . 
datum mobile satellite ground equipment sale include 
item gp receiver portable satellite terminal 
appear miss january datum set . 
doc usually 
publish listing `` space business indicators '' mid-year , 
next revision commercial space revenue release 
. 
expect revise revenue easily top $ 5,000 m , 
mobile satellite ground equipment add back 
number , year show 10 % overall market growth . 
look beyond year 's datum , future market look quite 
promising . 
doc project satellite service revenue could top 
$ 3,000 m 1995 new mobile satellite service direct 
broadcasting implement plan , mobile satellite 
station sale expect continue growth 15-20 % per year 
mid 1990 's . 
number somewhat pessimistic 
near-term market growth , agree trend 
substantial growth us commercial space sale least 
next 5-10 year . 
pessimism due conservative 
assumption market capture growth leo communication 
satellite direct broadcasting service . 
believe 
current player leo communication satellite 
market direct broadcasting market 
financial success , sale growth explosive 
currently project . 
also note year 's doc datum first 
release show revenue privately fund microgravity research 
facility . 
$ 60 m show datum primarily 
spacehab module , plan launch april space 
shuttle , also hide number project first 
sale comet orbital launch recovery experiment module . 
2 - delta win two key launch contract 
mcdonnell douglas corporation , build market delta 
launch vehicle win two important launch contract . 
motorola 
inc. announce mid february select delta 
launch satellite iridium leo 
communication constellation , mid april , mcdonnell douglas 
award usaf medium launch vehicle iii contract . 
launch service contract motorola iridium 
constellation launch launch least 45 iridium 
satellite . 
another 21 satellite contract 
launch khrunichev enterprise russian 3 proton vehicle 
launch . 
45 satellite plan delta 
launch 5 time , provide least 9 launch . 
additional satellite iridium constellation , 
plan on-orbit spare , may also launch delta . 
although 
detail launch service contract report 
negotiation , yet final . 
usaf mlv contract also go mdc , bid variant 
delta ii launcher . 
contract initially worth $ 7.5 
million , establish set launch option 36 
launch , encompass launch 1996 2002 . 

launch deploy next generation usaf 's global 
position system block iir navigation satellite , plus 
program . 
first option meet usaf launch option 
expect exercise year , usaf expect 
request launch 6 deltas per year least 6 year . 
contract usaf also request `` launch demand '' 
service mdc 1996-2002 time period , launch 
occur within 40 day request . 
commentary : two contract fulfil , 
provide excellent business base mdc 's delta launch program 
turn century . 
combine , two contract 
potential 45 launch , worth $ 2,200 m mdc , 
sustain core business base $ 300-400 . 
contract 
international commercial payload , well nasa 
medium payload , add business base -- keep 
mdc viable commerical launch company . 
however , note risk element 
contract . 
motorola 's iridium leo communication constellation 
yet receive us federal communications commission license 
operation u.s. , motorola line financing 
financial partner iridium venture . 
without 
approval financial backing iridium launch . 
, hopefully , uncertainty settle year . 
similarly , usaf mlv iii program target 
several congressional action slow production 
gps block iir satellite delete funding mlv iii 
program favor usaf nl `` '' program . 

time , appear mlv iii contract execute , future 
fund mlv iii usaf commercial launch contract 
reconsider part national space launch strategy 
review . 
opinion express within administration 
congress propose cancellation `` elv upgrade '' program 
include mlv program favor propose `` '' 
program . 
opinion may weight year 's budget 
deliberation , particularly dod fund difficult 
find shrink us defense budget . 
3 - commercial remote sense venture get doc `` go-ahead '' 
first commercial license operate remote sense 
satellite approve early february us department 
commerce 's office space commerce . 
license grant 
worldview imaging corporation oakland , california build 
operate pair leo imaging satellite provide multi-spectral 
image earth . 
commentary : little datum release venture 
worldview doc , announcement 
operate construction license . 
report 
request worldview . 
industry speculation identify new 
venture `` star wars '' spinoff , use technology 
provide digital earth sense datum , heavily integrate 
digital gi database remote user . 
probable 
customer service include exploration geologist , 
agricultural planner , urban planner . 
noteworthy first commercial venture 
1992 land remote sense policy act . 
act , pass last 
november , provide remote sense datum gather private remote 
sense craft may sell user differ price . 
prior 
act , remote sense datum satellite sell 
user price , private remote sense venture 
would sell landsat datum price . 
rumor several potential commercial remote 
sense venture work way system different 
stage development . 
think large landsat spot satellite 
system provide majority satellite remote sense 
datum market next decade . 
contrast large , 
government-sponsored remote sense system , smaller market venture 
worldview exploit market niche use 
innovative technology , believe , find profitability 
margin . 
predict may interesting venture 
appear next year . 
4 - investment firm calls gd 's space biz `` still good investment '' 
wall street investment house morgan stanley think general 
dynamic 's space systems division could still moneymaker , 
despite fail last 3 atla launch . 
recent 
analyst 's report morgan stanley say `` ever 
convinced company return atlas historical 
95 % - plus success rate , become highly profitable , cash - 
generate unit . '' 
base upon discussion gd 's corporate 
management , morgan stanley project atlas problem 
clear unit could see $ 70 m earnings per year 1995 
$ 100 m per year 2000 . 
base upon gd 's projection 
capture 10 atlas launch per year world market . 
commentary : three failure row launch system 
hurt general dynamic 's space systems division . 
since gd 
restructure keep profitable core business , 
many market pundit speculate gd 's space business might 
next sell . 
morgan stanley report indicate gd 's space 
systems division potential moneymaker , despite current 
problem -- get act together . 
sale project 
$ 560 m 1993 , probably generate loss 
$ 25 m. gd capture project share space 
launch market , manage clean reliability 
atla launcher , could generate healthy profit 
sale . 
demonstrate atlas centaur 
program back track , division continue show 
substantial loss . 
response sell-off rumor , opinion , operation 
really good candidate takeover quick profitability . 
takeover , current set corporate divisional 
management would replace another set outside firm . 
gd ssd 's case , get division back track , management 
team concentrate hard technical problem 
atlas centaur , well sell atlas service . 
would 
indicate another firm experience rocket launch 
operation could find talent in-house , able convince 
customer buy launch service . 
optimally , firm would 
substantial liquid rocket experience , experience 
marketing space technology internationally well . 
candidate 
might trw , rockwell , lockheed , martin , possibly 
mcdonnell douglas boeing . 
firm cash 
flow problem mdc , substantial business contraction 
boeing mdc , involve launch firm lockheed , 
take substantial debt martin . 
come 
$ m purchase price division big chunk 
change company . 
5 - ariane predict dip launch demand 
arianespace , operator ariane launch system , 
project dip launch demand late 1990 's . 
early 
february , arianespace release annual market survey , 
detail projection space transportation market 
next decade . 
short run , arianespace expect retain dominant 
position sustain majority share launch market . 
54 
international commercial launch plan 1995 , ariane 
hold contract 31 , general dynamics ' atlas vehicle hold 14 
contract , mcdonnell douglas ' delta hold 7 , great wall 's long 
march vehicle hold 2 launch contract . 
three-quarter future launch contract ariane 
compete project come communication satellite 
remain 25 % split weather , earth observation , 
scientific satellite . 
future telecommunications demand 
growth predict come region . 
arianespace expect current market consolidation 
individual satellite operator regional national group 
continue , group invest heavier satellite 
larger communication payload carry transponder . 
arianespace predict average mass telecommunications 
satellite increase 20 % today 's average level , 
3000 kg geo . 
demand commercial launch service expect remain 
strong next three year , second half 
decade , arianespace predict demand decrease . 
arianespace 
basis prediction upon matching satellite transponder 
demand supply , particularly new datum compression technique 
appear could double triple transponder capacity use exist 
near-term transponder . 
one significant possible change market 
identify arrival new launch vehicle , include russian 
launch system . 
arianespace predict long term , 
investor purchase launch service look best trade 
launch service quality price , russian 
new launch service prove capability 
service quality , market penetration minimal . 
commentary : ariane release market survey annually , 
report prior market survey past issue . 
compare two survey , outstanding difference 
number . 
notable change consideration new 
datum compression technique , reduce demand new physical 
transponder orbit . 
note contrast prediction , demand space - 
base communication transponder appear remain strong . 

fiber optic line make substantial inroad 
establish point-to-point telecommunications market , grow 
demand telecommunications service world wide - 
multipoint broadcast service prevent decrease space 
transponder demand . 
fiberoptic cable provide higher capability 
service , established point established point b. 
establish fiberoptic link necessary install cable 
point , improved network solution , 
install large network distribute fiberoptic link cost 
million billion dollar . 
broadcast service exist ground 
network structure , satellite still offer cost effective 
solution . 
new service require new region , 
cheaper install small satellite link cost ten 
thousand dollar tie exist global satellite 
network . 
allow rapid growth new satellite service , 
keep demand high . 
replacement market fiberoptic 
grow well , since demand grow point service , 
become cost effective later install fiberoptic link 
handle increase traffic . 
since telecommunications datum transfer market still 
grow rapidly , satellite market projection remain rosy . 

satellite also get longer orbital lifetime . 
current 
generation satellite get guarantee 15 year 
on-orbit service , contrast 10 year service 
last generation 's satellite . 
cut back launch 
demand , satellite owner reschedule replacement satellite 
launch longer interval . 
last note ; arianespace flag year , 
look like space transportation market rather - 
supply exist launch system near term . 
annual 
commercial launch demand 15-20 medium size satellite 
per year . 
supply side , ariane capable launch 
dozen medium size satellite year , delta capable 
9-12 per year , atlas capable 6-12 , long march 4-8 , 
japan 's 2-4 , russia 's proton capable 8 , 
system zenit soyuz another 10-20 medium launch per 
year . 
lot capability small market . 
expect competition intensify commercial 
launch . 
6 - ntsb investigate pegasus launch aborted abort 
9 feb pegasus launch orbital sciences corporation 
spawn investigation apparent violation range safety 
rule . 
valid abort order nasa range safety officer halt 
mission override pegasus launch violation 
range safety rule . 
last minute pegasus launch countdown , one 
two abort command receiver aboard pegasus fail . 
failure 
typically scrub launch , nasa range safety officer 
wallops island , va issue mission abort order minute 
schedule pegasus launch . 
somehow command 
override osc launch team message lose 
communication channel , pegasus launch despite 
valid abort call . 
fortunately , pegasus function expect , abort 
command receiver need . 
incident spark 
investigation since valid abort order give 
launch constraint rule , obey . 
lead investigation national transportation safety 
board ntsb support nasa , osc , air force . 

investigation mark first time ntsb take lead 
incident involve space launch . 
accord ntsb , 
investigation take 6 month , primarily look 
line authority , communication link safety procedure use 
launch . 
commentary : first time ntsb lead 
investigation space launch . 
leadership request 
department commerce 's office commercial space 
transportation , license commercial launch . 
time write column , initial 
investigation conclude , result 
start leak trade press . 
apparently , 3 four 
different communication channel use test . 

abort destruct receiver stop respond , nasa test 
director range controller mission control room wallops 
island give abort order minute launch . 
accord mission rule , stop launch . 
somehow , osc test conductor order abort reverse , 
nasa communicator net relay order b-52 carry 
pegasus 22 seconds launch . 
differ 
exactly happen propose -- 
best set clear line communication clear 
definition responsibility mission control team , 
understanding mission rule establish 
launch . 
see commercial launch , 
procedural issue go crop resolve . 
case interesting first time ntsb 
call investigate commercial launch problem 
commercial aircraft problem . 
think problem turn primarily problem 
procedure communication , clear issuance 
guideline launch communication set 
specific line authority delineate . 
7 - another pegasus competitor announce 
enterprise russia announce market new 
small space launch system , base upon convert icbm component . 
two version launcher market : `` '' 
winged vehicle launch like osc pegasus , `` '' , 
launch mobile ground transporter . 

project deliver 900 kg 200 km circular orbit 580 kg 
800 km circular orbit , capable 430 
kg 200 km orbit 225 kg 800 km . 
also propose use 
launch system leo datum relay system call 
` sineva ' . 
enterprise describe ex-military 
establishment , focus aerodynamics thermal protection 
spacecraft participate development 
buran shuttle system , located near npo energia 
facility kaliningrad , outside moscow . 
commentary : little release information new 
venture . 
suspicion another russian enterprise look 
hard currency try capitalize upon in-house 
knowledge ex-soviet launch system . 
add list numerous 
commercial space startup announce ex-soviet union . 
one 's little different offer variant 
ex-soviet icbm , identify key customer 
target substantial financial backing . 
8 - georgia launch site drop plan 
late january , georgia tech research institute release 
result preliminary study feasibility commercial 
rocket launch site camden county , georgia old kingsland 
missile test launching site atlantic coast . 
preliminary 
study recommend site pursue commercial launch 
site , state reopen site feasible due project 
low investment return , plus environmental geographic 
consideration . 
however , report say site might ideal 
aerospace use , recommend potential use . 
commentary : put nail coffin 
kingsland commercial launch site . 
site still 
proceed commercial launch site development plan , kingsland 
find without key customer act anchor tenant , 
substantial infrastructure put , expect 
return low justify cost development . 
might point key discriminator judge 
feasibility commercial launch site . 
include : 
- identify key customer provide core usage 
sufficient recover setup cost ? 
- market advantage use site ? 
- exist infrastructure use modify site ? 
- finance find low enough cost support 
investment ? 
commercial launch site venture -- include 
woomera , poker flat , cape york , white sands , alabama off-shore 
platform , hawaii , vandenberg also judge 
criterion . 
opinion , venture fly 
hope speculation , sound financial grounds . 
9 - spain 's capricornia launcher still proceed 
one last official act , former president bush 
authorized space technology transfer several joint space 
venture us firm . 
one propose 
use us technology spain build small booster . 

regulatory impediment remove , 3-stage launch 
vehicle start development later year , plan first 
launch time period . 
capricornia describe 
small 3-stage solid booster design put kg 
leo . 
several launch site examine system , 
include 2 iberian peninsula 1 canary islands . 
originate inta spain , project report $ 30 m 
development funding , use technology argentina 's condor 
launch vehicle well us . 
commentary : several firm identify market opportunity 
provide small launcher european market . 
small 
payload european firm organization currently use either 
ariane piggyback launch scout launcher . 
however , ariane piggyback opportunity limit , scout 
program phase accompany disarray 
italian government space industry regard follow-on 
system . 
leave apparent niche new european small launch 
system . 
surprisingly enough , esa support development 
system within current space funding structure . 
study 
perform british aerospace , aerospatiale , deutsche 
aerospace , italian organization , exception 
system report , able 
find european development work even rumor 
fund hardware . 
also interest link capricornia 
argentinian condor launcher . 
interesting 
rumor surface argentina past year space 
program fund military junta rule 
country 1970 's early 1980 's . 
know feb 1992 , argentinian air force formally 
transfer control condor 2 missile program new 
civilian argentinian national space agency nacional de 
- cna . 
condor 2 program describe 
originate 1983 , expand upon smaller condor 1 rocket 
program collaboration egypt support german 
firm . 
condor 2 also reportedly fund indirectly iraq 
mid-1980 's . 
fairly large solid rocket motor build 
test , argentinan development suitable guidance package 
lag propulsion system . 
note plan launch first 
scientific satellite late 1994 . 
us$ 9 m , 181 kg , 
satellite study earth 's upper atmosphere include 
cooperative experiment italy us . 
launch vehicle 
yet select , osc 's pegasus russian air 
launch rocket report strong contender 
contract . 
10 - signs launch reservation swedish space corp 
, small launch firm herndon , virginia announce 
late february receive $ 6 m launch reservation contract 
swedish space corp launch satellite 's 
launch vehicle . 
perform part polar 
satellite service pss , joint norwegian space center swedish 
space corp. program upgrade andoya rocket range norway 
offer small satellite launch polar region . 
accord 
, pss also perform $ 8 m upgrade andoya 
launch facility , include new integration facility fully - 
enclose vertical assembly building small launch vehicle like 
. 
choose `` main 
alternative rocket supplier '' small satellite launch service 
offer pss andoya . 
date launch 
swedish satellite specify . 
commentary : try line customer 
fund launch vehicle time . 

small , two stage rocket fuel rp-1 liquid oxygen . 

's literature , engine design 
rocket build `` shelf '' component base upon lunar 
module descent engines build trw , capable put 
225 kg satellite 750 km circular polar orbit . 
try arrange construction financing 
first three vehicle , first launch plan 1995 , 
2 orbital launch plan 1996 . 
record show hire 
trw provide marketing support system design , primary 
engineering , small satellite builder 
closely associate headquarter 
building . 
swedish space corporation would supply engineering , 
launch operation , vehicle subsystem , marketing support . 
sumitomo corp. tokyo , first round investor sit 
board director . 
get first round financial package least 
$ 550 k source place high $ 1 m , 
search year additional $ 20-30 m need 
design , build launch first set vehicle . 
launch reservation ssc possibly use help 
bring investor board , estimate , need 
much single $ 6 m sale put venture real 
hardware . 
11 - china taiwan joint satellite venture report 
early march , report joint satellite communication 
venture taiwanese mainland chinese work . 
report taipei press , china development corp. cdc , 
headquarter link ruling nationalist 
party , plan set joint venture hong kong china 
great wall industry corp. objective launch regional 
communication satellite . 
cdc would cover 10 % satellite 
system cost us $ 10 m exchange rights 10 % 
satellite 's communication channel . 
commentary : announcement come close heel 
release taiwanese plan space development release mid 
january . 
plan , national space program office 
taiwan launch 3 satellite , start rocsat-1 , 400 kg 
scientific spacecraft , plan launch 1997 . 
two additional 
satellite plan , communication satellite . 
trw 
help taiwan plan program , budget 13.6 b us $ 530 
m 2006 . 
able establish relationship 
venture , might connection . 
taiwan financing pursue several venture , 
current taiwanese telecommunications market might support two 
separate venture . 
report name system `` asiasat - 
2 '' , think relationship exist 
hong kong-based `` asiasat '' program involve chinese , hong kong , 
asian investor , use organizational 
model . 
obvious advantage pursue joing 
venture -- could provide excellent first-hand experience 
taiwan low cost , use later 
satellite venture . 
internal political issue 
taiwanese chinese venture , put joint venture 
hong kong intermediary corporation might allow 
proceed . 
case , east asian satellite market light 
substantially growth project space service revenue . 

another indicator add list . 
12 - south korea announce national move space technology 
south korea 's trade , industry resources ministry recently 
announce plan invest us$ 22 b research development 
another us$ 17 b manufacturing research facility 
advanced aerospace technology . 
space technology 
specifically target part program , begin 
manufacture launch advanced multi-purpose satellite 
1997 . 
objective investment raise south korea 's 
aerospace technology level world 's top 10 country 
2000 . 
commentary : south korea quietly work develop 
national aerospace industry , specifically include space 
activity . 
note flag potential new player 
come commercial space market . 
part national effort , 2 national telecommunications 
satellite korea telecom launch april oct 1995 
delta . 
designated 1 2 , platform provide 
television telephone service throughout korean peninsula , 
southwestern japan portion china border north korea . 
south korea launch first small satellite piggyback 
ariane aug 1992 , call star cost us 
$ 8.8 m. plan piggyback launch october 
year , ariane , entirely `` make korea . '' 
, project 1995 launch , environment - 
monitor . 
satellite may precursor series small earth 
observation satellite , keo korean earth observation system 
project , submit approval south korean 
government , would use two three spacecraft equip 
optical microwave sensor . 
south korean press report claim also parallel 
military effort establish capability building 
launch small military satellite 2001 . 
supposedly 
government panel establish oversee effort , 
fund us $ 500 m 1993 2001 , anticipation 
expect pullout u.s. intelligence-gathering system 
korean peninsula . 
conjunction report effort , south korean 
also pursue production work either off-set exist 
aerospace technology contract example , mcdonnell douglas 
offset production delta part south korean firm 
part launch contract , production 
consumer space item among product , south korea export 
satellite receiver television setup japan , samsung 
announce team production osc 's orbcomm user terminal . 
. 
look like aggressive push space technology . 
consider east asia currently fastest grow sector 
commercial space service primarily telecommunications , 
south korean push space technology may change composition 
commercial space market next decade . 
13 - space technology index march 
announce last , issue give 
result stock index portfolio regard space stock 
investment . 
table summarize result end 
march . 
space technology index quite bit better 
market whole , represent s&p 500 index . 
since 90 + % 
value include index us firm , represent 
general increase market value space-related firm . 

increase first quarter 1992 -- 
promising sign , although future month may reverse 
trend . 
commercial space technology index also quite 
well , pure play portfolio -- consist stock firm 
pure play space technology -- also surpass 
result 1993 . 
'll keep eye ... 
index result march 
begin begin 1 jan 93 
1992 1993 31 mar 1993 
------- -------- -------- 
s&p 500 416 436 % 452 % 
space tech index 267 304 % 373 % 
comm ' l space tech index 167 194 % 222 % 
space tech pure plays 147 169 % 197 % 
final note - 
? 
column 's already full ? 
still bunch 
commercial space development report . 
say start 
, column lot interesting happening - 
'll put next issue . 
look ahead , get several article work new 
happening iridium leo communication satellite market , 
news international launcher appear disappear 
market , new international commercial space venture , 
interesting development . 
always , hope folk find stuff useful 
interesting -- comment welcome . 
----------------------------------------------------------------- 
wales larrison space technology investor 
`` felicitas habet amico '' p.o. box 
seal beach , ca 
