: 
subject : space surveillance ? 
organization : science application int ' l corp. san diego 
lines : 111 
ethnocentric , assume 
country significant capability track 
non-cooperative object low earth orbit . 
grazing couple 
database recently , find japan optical capability 
along line , also use radar design purpose 
orbital debris survey clear whether radar 
determine orbital element object detect . 
abstract 
article append . 
lead general question : yet people 
us , russia , japan space surveillance , , 
? 
allen thomson saic mclean , va , usa 

abstract 
optical tracking experimental geodetic satellite eg 
, masao ; , toshikazu ; aruga , tadashi 
radio research laboratory , review issn , vol . 
34 , 
march 1988 , p. . 
japanese , abstract english . 
paper report optical tracking result eg 
experimental geodetic satellite launch august 13 , 
1986 , nasda . 
egs optical tracking experiment process 
outline radio research laboratory rrl optical ground < -- 
station discuss . 
star tracking technique optical 
equipment calibration satellite tracking technique orbit 
prediction improvement also describe . 
accuracy eg 
track datum obtain rrl request nasda also 
discuss . 
addition , briefly demonstrate 
position japanese amateur satellite 
launch egs , accurately determine means < -- 
satellite tracking video . 
clear experiment < -- 
optical observation datum i.e. , satellite direction datum < -- 
useful satellite orbit determination initial launch < -- 
stage . 
furthermore , result confirm < -- 
two satellite optical tracking technique . 
< -- 
mu radar measurement orbital debris 
sato , toru ; kayama , hidetoshi ; furusawa , akira ; kimura , 
kyoto university , japan 
aiaa , nasa , dod , orbital debris conference : technical issues 
future direction , baltimore , md , apr. 16-19 , 1990 . 
10 p. 
rpn : aiaa paper 
distribution orbital debris versus height scattering cross 
section determine series observation make high - 
power vhf doppler radar mu radar japan . 
automate datum 
process algorithm develop discriminate echo 
orbit object undesired signal meteor trail 
echo lightning atmospherics . 
although result preliminary , 
show good agreement norad track radar < -- 
observation use much higher frequency . 
find < -- 
collision frequency space station 1 km x 1 km size 
altitude 500 km orbit debris expect high 
per two year . 
monitoring mu radar antenna pattern satellite 
sato , t. ; , y. ; , s. kyoto univ. , japan ; kato , s. 
kyoto univ. , uji japan . 
radio atmospheric science center . 
international council scientific union , middle atmosphere program . 
handbook map , vol . 
20 5 p 
publication date : jun. 1986 
first attempt among mst mesosphere stratosphere 
troposphere type radar , mu middle upper atmosphere radar 
feature active phased array system . 
unlike conventional large 
vhf radar , output power large vacuum tube distribute 
individual antenna element , 475 solid state power amplifier 
feed antenna element . 
system configuration enable fast 
beam steering well various flexible operation divide 
antenna independent , phase shift signal 
perform low signal level use 
electronic device control computer network . 
antenna 
beam switch within 10 direction within 
zenith angle 30 deg . 
since precise phase alignment element 
crucial realize excellent performance system , careful 
calibration output phase power amplifier antenna 
element carry . 
among various aircraft may use 
purpose artificial satellite advantage able 
make long term monitoring system . 
antenna pattern 
monitor system mu radar develop use scientific 
satellite . 
receiver name mum mu radar antenna 
monitor board satellite measure cw signal 100 400 
watt transmit mu radar . 
principle measurement 
result discuss . 
equatorial radar system 
, shoichiro ; tsuda , ; sato , toru ; kato , susumu 
kyoto university , uji , japan 
cospar , , , et al. , plenary meet , 27th , 
workshop symposium earth 's middle atmosphere , 
espoo , finland , july 18-29 , 1988 advance space research 
issn , vol . 
10 , no. 10 , 1990 , p. . 
large clear air radar sensitivity incoherent 
scatter radar observe whole equatorial atmosphere 1000 
km altitude design japan . 
radar build 
pontianak , west kalimantan , indonesia 0.03 deg n , deg e . 

system doppler radar active phased array 
configuration similar mu radar japan , 
successful operation since 1983 . 
pa product 
3 x 10 9th w sq m p average transmitter power , effective 
antenna aperture sensitivity approximately 10 time 
mu radar . 
system configuration enable beam 
steer within 20 deg zenith . 
case mu radar , 
variety operation make feasible supervision 
radar controller . 
brief description system configuration 
present . 
