go upriver : long war john kerry documentary film u.s. senator john kerry 's military service vietnam war subsequent participation peace movement . 
significant emphasis kerry 's famous speech senate committee , historical footage winter soldier investigations , coverage dewey canyon iii anti-war demonstration washington , d.c. . 
majority film compose archival footage , much original black-and-white format . 
producer 's website , retrieve oct. 1 , 2004 : \ `` feature length documentary character moral leadership time national crisis . 
loosely base best-selling book tour duty douglas brinkley , go upriver examine story john kerry key event make national figure man today . 
\ `` go upriver director george butler best know highly acclaimed film pump iron , feature arnold schwarzenegger ' first realize kerry \ u2019 importance generation begin document journey photograph 1969 , cover kerry 's leadership vietnam veterans war vvaw , early political campaign , well intimate moment personal life . 
film weave together butler \ u2019 extraordinary photograph archival film , interview kerry \ u2019 closest associate , contemporary image senator home abroad . 
\ '' go upriver culmination forty-year friendship kerry george butler . 
first meet 1964 butler reporter photographer , publish book together \ `` new soldier , \ '' vietnam vet anti-war movement 1971 . 
butler document kerry 's political career thousand photograph , kerry godfather one butler 's son . 
butler build portrait kerry conversation man serve , people go college , relative . 
narrow story vietnam , use vintage footage show duty kerry ask transfer . 
recollection shipmate , shot battle battle damage swift boat , underscore nature duty kerry 's performance . 
video tv appearance congressional testimony get back provide context kerry 's change heart war determination see comrade stop die . 
considerable attention pay lesser known activity detail behind era 's tumultuous event , occupy washington mall despite court injunction two march arlington national cemetery . 
descriptive narrative often give way powerful message convey expression action participant catch film event . 
footage shot vietnam could consider mildly graphic . 
go upriver first pre-released toronto international film festival \ `` real reel \ '' documentary category september 9 september 18 , 2004 . 
opening release date : october 1 , 2004 scheduled date dvd release : october 19 , 2004 runtime : 130 min usa min theatrical version rating pg-13 country : usa language : english color : black white color production company : swiftboat film llc distribute : thinkfilm , inc. . 
executive producers : william samuels , vin roberti , marc abrams , russell abrams , michael r. klein producers : george t. butler , mark hopkins director : george t. butler screenplay : joe dorman , douglas brinkley novel cinematography : sandi sissel editor : melody london , tim squyres , jean tsien , kenneth wachtel sound : c5 music : philip glass credited cast - partial listing : douglas brinkley ... ... - official kerry biographer max cleland ... ... ... - former democratic senator georgia bestor cram ... ... ... - vvaw anti-war activist , vietnam veteran bester cram richard holbrooke ... . 

