danny lyon bear 1942 , self-taught american photographer filmmaker . 
also credit accomplished writer accompany photograph . 
study history university chicago , graduate bachelor art degree 1963 . 
year , publish first photograph work student nonviolent coordinating committee . 
picture appear movement , documentary book southern civil rights movement . 
later , lyon begin create book . 
first , study outlaw motorcyclist collection 1967 , lyon photograph motorcyclist american midwest 1963 1967 . 
additionally , also become member chicago outlaws motorcycle club travel , share lifestyle . 
accord lyon , photograph \ `` attempt record glorify life american . 
\ '' series immensely popular influential 1960 1970 . 
1970 , also contribute environmental protection agency 's project . 
destruction lower manhattan lyon 's next work , publish macmillan publishers 1969 . 
book document large-scale demolition take place throughout lower manhattan 1967 . 
include photograph soon demolish street building , portrait neighborhood 's last remain straggler picture within demolition site . 
book originally sell one dollar , soon attain status collector 's item . 
later reprint 2005 . 
conversation dead 1971 , publish full cooperation texas department corrections . 
lyon photograph six prison fourteen month period 1967 1968 . 
series print book 1971 holt publishing . 
introduction lyon 's book point statement purpose penal system texas symbolic incarceration everywhere . 
state , \ `` try whatever power make picture imprisonment distressing know reality . 
\ '' lyon befriend many prisoner . 
book also include text take prison record , letter convict , inmate artwork . 
particular , book focus case billy mccune , convict rapist whose death sentence commute life prison climax book 's popularity . 
foreword , lyon describe billy diagnose psychotic , one evening , await execution , \ `` cut penis root , place cup , pass bar guard . 
\ '' lyon 's publication work style photographic \ `` new journalism \ '' , mean photographer become immerse , participant , document subject . 
danny lyon receive guggenheim foundation fellowship photography 1969 , film make 1979 . 
solo exhibit whitney museum american art , museum modern art , art institute chicago , center creative photography university arizona . 
found member photography group bleak beauty . 
greatly encourage documentary work curator hugh edwards . 
