evalyn walsh mclean august 1 , 1886 , leadville , colorado \ april 26 , 1947 washington , d.c. american mining heiress socialite famous last private owner 45 carat 9.0 g ; 140 gr hope diamond well another famous diamond , 94 carat 19 g star east . 
also author , boyden sparkes , memoir , father struck rich . 
daughter thomas walsh , irish immigrant miner prospector turn multimillionaire , wife , carrie bell reed , former schoolteacher . 
1908 , marry edward beale mclean , heir washington post cincinnati enquirer publish fortune . 
four child : vinson walsh mclean epilepsy die age nine , follow traffic accident , edward beale mclean jr , john roll mclean ii , emily washington mclean later change name evalyn walsh mclean . 
couple , whose marriage rent infidelity substance abuse spectacular alcoholic , addict morphine , divorce 1929 , though decree invalidate due divorce illegally obtain lithuania . 
ned mclean eventually become common-law husband rose , sister hollywood film star marion davies , die mental institution . 
couple 's notoriety reflect appearance cole porter 's title song 1934 musical , anything go : \ `` missus ned mclean god bless get russian red \ `` yes \ '' , suppose anything go . 
\ '' evalyn walsh mclean also friend confidante alice roosevelt longworth florence harding , wife warren g. harding , 29th president united states . 
site summer house , friendship -- sprawling country mansion build father-in-law john russell pope locate tenleytown road , n.w. -- condominium complex know mclean gardens . 
original house demolish 1940s though property 's garden feature remain intact , georgian-style ballroom . 
later residence , also know friendship , located corner r street , n.w. wisconsin avenue , remain private home . 
childhood home , grandiose second empire-style mansion 2020 massachusetts avenue , n.w. , indonesian embassy . 
mclean victim gaston means , former f.b.i. agent , murder suspect , grifter , claim set deal free lindbergh baby ransom $ 100,000 usd evalyn mclean advance . 
means disappear money resurface month later california ask mclean additional fund . 
suspicious means ' activity , help lead police means , also want various crime civil action . 
ultimately lead conviction imprisonment larceny charge . 
evalyn walsh mclean die 60 pneumonia bury rock creek cemetery , washington d.c. , walsh family tomb . 
