arthur o'connell march 29 , 1908 -- may 18 , 1981 american stage film actor . 
appear film start small role citizen kane 1941 television program mostly guest appearance . 
among screen appearance picnic , anatomy murder , hide jews wwii hide place . 
veteran vaudevillian , o'connell , new york city , make legitimate stage debut mid 1930 , time fall within orbit orson welles ' mercury theatre . 
welles cast o'connell tiny role reporter closing scene citizen kane 1941 , film often refer o'connell 's film debut , though fact already appear freshman year 1939 two leon errol short subject leon 's connive brother-in-law . 
numerous small movie part , o'connell return broadway , appear erstwhile middle-aged swain schoolteacher picnic - role would recreate 1956 film version , earn oscar nomination process . 
later jaded look o'connell frequently cast fortyish loser alcoholic ; latter capacity appear james stewart 's boozy attorney mentor anatomy murder 1959 , result another oscar nomination . 
1962 o'connell portray father elvis presley 's character motion picture follow dream , 1964 kissin ' cousin . 
o'connell continue appear choice character part tv film 1960 , avoid regular television series , hold could assure top billing . 
appear joseph baylor 1964 episode \ `` little anger good thing \ '' abc medical drama psychiatry , break point . 
actor accept part man discover father freeze iceberg 1967 sitcom second hundred year , assume would bill first per producer ' agreement . 
instead , top billing go newcomer monte markham dual role o'connell 's father son . 
o'connell accept demotion second billing well could expect , never trust word hollywood executive . 
ill health force o'connell significantly reduce act appearance mid '70 , actor stay busy commercial spokesman , friendly pharmacist spokesperson crest toothpaste . 
time death alzheimer 's disease california may 1981 , o'connell appear solely commercial , choice . 
o'connell bury calvary cemetery , queens , new york . 
