luther chase goldman american naturalist wildlife photographer . 
best know photograph endanger species bird , chief photographer u.s. fish wildlife service . 
luther bear washington , d.c. , november 2 , 1909 . 
fortunate younger year learn nature lore father , edward a. goldman , eminent naturalist . 
teenage summer month serve camp boy research expedition arizona , trapping prepare specimen mammal , early interest , also gain field experience predator rodent control branch bureau biological survey united states fish wildlife service . 
university maryland earn degree biological science letter football first-string lineman . 
three year field work follow : mexico two winter biological investigation winter waterfowl , member party baja california collect mountain sheep new , florida , assistant dr. arthur h. howell \ u2019 fauna research , arizona mammal research north rim grand canyon . 
1939 , marry college sweetheart , mary elizabeth betty mulligan . 
year , , beginning 20-year career manager national wildlife refuge new salton sea national wildlife refuge california . 
luther \ u2019 intense interest ornithology wildlife photography develop early result living remote area poor access good film develop print source . 
take darkroom work begin document require narrative report washington d. c office 8 \ u201d x 10 \ u201d print . 
illustration attract immediate attention , copy photograph begin appear cover bureau report elsewhere . 
1941 , attend first train school bureau procedure activity patuxent research refuge laurel , maryland . 
spend month one-man biological reconnaissance prior establishment imperial havasu national wildlife refuges lower colorado river arizona . 
development plan salton sea national wildlife refuge put hold due unstable condition sea \ u2019s water table . 
1942 , luther transfer new mexico manage bitter lake national wildlife refuge . 
along normal refuge activity engineering project change course pecos river control bank erosion . 
night , bright light far german prisoner-of-war camp could see . 
enter active duty u.s. army 1943 , luther serve three year entomologist . 
upon return civilian life offer three choice wildlife refuge management . 
seize opportunity research develop two new national wildlife refuge texas-mexico border rio grande valley \ laguna atascosa national wildlife refuge santa ana national wildlife refuge . 
next 12 year fill excitement challenge . 
wild america , co-author roger tory peterson birding expedition around north america , james fisher write , \ one best field man ever encounter . 
\ u201d aforementioned 20 year western refuge include army service , luther accept position washington office assistant chief , section wildlife management branch wildlife refuges . 
, betty , son , edward , move college park , maryland . 
serve many panel team , include secretary udall \ u2019 eagle survey team , result new restriction poisoning , trapping , aerial hunting eagle u.s. later , ability wildlife photography lead appointment bureau \ u2019 chief photographer curator extensive photo file , photograph endanger species field activity . 
receive certificate c 
