james ralph \ `` shug \ '' jordan september 25 , 1910 - july 17 , 1980 winningest football coach auburn university auburn , alabama . 
university 's stadium name honor . 
jordan name national coach year 1957 auburn vote national champion associated press . 
bear selma , alabama , jordan nickname \ `` shug \ '' child love sugar cane . 
1932 graduate auburn , letter football , baseball , basketball vote outstanding athlete 1932 . 
member theta chi fraternity . 
graduation , become head basketball coach , assistant football coach auburn . 
ten season , 1945-1946 head basketball coach , compile record . 
coach jordan also compile 45 win head basketball coach georgia . 
addition winningest football coach auburn history , jordan rank fifth win among tigers basketball coach . 
world war ii , see significant action north africa sicily wound invasion normandy receive purple heart bronze star . 
continue action pacific theater recover . 
jordan serve every major invasion world war ii u.s. army play role north africa , sicily , normandy okinawa . 
prior hire auburn 's head football coach 1951 , spend one season assistant coach miami seahawks all-america football conference 1946 , four year assistant university georgia . 
retain brown 's previous assistant shot senn lineman , joel eaves defensive end dick mcgowen head freshman team coach former auburn player hire george l. \ `` buck \ '' bradberry defensive backfield , homer hobbs assistant line , gene offensive end former georgia player charlie waller offensive backfield . 
mcgowen also serve tiger head baseball coach 1951 1957 . 
first season , jordan coach tigers 5-5 record improve previous five straight lose season . 
jordan would lead auburn first sec championship first , national championship 1957 . 
1971 , jordan 's tutelage lead quarterback pat sullivan heisman trophy . 
however , heisman season end disappointment convincing loss oklahoma sooners sugar bowl . 
next year , jordan 's tigers upset , arch-rival alabama iron bowl - victory become know nickname punt bama punt . 
1973 , university rename cliff hare stadium stadium honor make first stadium u.s. name active coach . 
jordan retire 1975 season amass enviable record percentage 22 winning season 25 coach . 
