jon jerde b. 1940 american architect base venice , california , founder & chairman jerde partnership , design architecture urban planning firm pioneer concept \ `` experience architecture '' create multiple award-winning commercial development around globe . 
jerde grow multi-disciplinary firm office los angeles , hong kong , shanghai , seoul , amsterdam , dubai . 
firm seek ability create destination memorable experience people attract million visitor innovative design planning approach . 
date , nearly 1 billion people visit place year . 
jon also graduate school architecture university southern california . 
early year work charles kober associates multiple retail project , include plaza pasadena , jerde commission developer ernie hahn design horton plaza , across horton plaza park downtown san diego . 
project credit single-handedly rejuvenate city 's downtown core replace several block older structure new retail village concept . 
design radical departure traditional suburban mall design time . 
five story outdoor retail complex , main passage diagonally orient street grid time anchor nordstrom , macy 's , sam goody music store ; connect westin hotel balboa theatre , result urban mixed-use center . 
spatial rhythm include long one-way ramp sudden drop-off , dramatic parapet , shadowy colonnade cul-de-sac , design shatter many traditional rule lower ambient arousal level protect maximal merchandise . 
fragmented space look feel like postmodern art project traditional mall , festive color contrast ubiquitous beige store architecture period . 
project complete 1985 . 
despite unique non-traditional retail design approach , horton plaza 's radical design bring 25 million visitor first year , 2004 continue generate san diego 's highest sale per unit area . 
project also spark nearly $ 2.4 billion redevelopment surrounding area downtown core . 
westfield currently horton plaza process develop series expansion . 
jerde partnership also develop experiential philosophy design planning los angeles 1984 olympics , become profitable olympics date . 
base success horton retailing perspective , olympics concept , firm continue evolve creative expertise create retail entertainment destination , design redevelopment fashion island newport beach , ca 1989 ; hugely successful $ mall america bloomington , minnesota 1992 , original urban entertainment center universal citywalk los angeles ; pirate show facade treasure island casino vegas 1993 ; las vegas fremont street experience 1995 ; bellagio las vegas 1998 . 
firm develop major international company key urban regeneration project overseas , include rotterdam , netherlands , canal city hakata fukuoka , japan , 1996 , well significant project japan , china , europe . 
jerde continue evolve design expertise recently complete string critically acclaimed urban mixed-use , sustainable development , include : namba parks osaka , japan , recently award urban land institute award excellence : asia pacific , 2009 ; roppongi hills tokyo , japan ; kanyon istanbul , turkey ; warsaw , poland ; along multiple high profile project currently design planning stage . 
jerde 's project consistently 
