james gamble rogers march 3 , 1867 -- october 1 , 1947 american architect best know academic commission yale university , columbia university , northwestern university , elsewhere . 
rogers bear bryan station , kentucky , james m. katharine gamble rogers . 
rogers attend yale university , member scroll key , senior society whose membership include several notable architect . 
receive b.a. 1889 , responsible many gothic revival structure yale university build 1910s mid 1930 , well university 's master plan 1924 . 
design university well , butler library columbia university , many original building columbia-presbyterian medical center , several structure northwestern university . 
rogers philanthropist edward harkness 's favorite architect , harkness would often condition gift new academic medical building upon institution 's agreement hire rogers project . 
thus coincidence rogers ' work abundant yale , columbia institution harkness support lavishly . 
though harkness love rogers 's work , harkness donate new home wolf 's head , society yale , another architect choose , obvious reason , accord many source architectural history . 
rogers ' neo-gothic design yale lend air instant heritage authenticity campus . 
rogers criticize prominent ameican architect , namely ralph adams cram , use steel frame underneath stone cladding , trick splashing acid stone wall simulate age . 
rogers also criticize grow modernist movement time . 
1927 sterling memorial library come especially vocal attack yale student historicist spirit lavish use ornament . 
rogers 's nephew , james gamble rogers ii also architect , design home winter park , florida rogers family architecture firm rogers , lovelock fritz , rogers ii 's son john jack rogers principal architect . 
rogers ii 's son , james gamble rogers iv also train architect . 
work family firm young man , james gamble rogers iv decide pursue passion music . 
become note florida folksinger , composer guitarist , memorialize gamble rogers memorial foundation , gamble rogers middle school , gamble rogers memorial state recreation area flagler beach florida 's east coast . 
james gamble rogers ' architectural drawing photograph hold dept. drawings & archives avery architectural fine arts library columbia university new york . 
