james wine 1932 - american associate environmental design . 
wine also architectural design innovator , product designer , educator . 
wine explicitly express \ `` concern earth . 
\ '' write length new mode architecture , design , planning , also provide succinct critique status quo statement like : 20th century begin architect inspire emerge age industry technology . 
everybody want believe building could somehow function like combustion engine . 
inspirational force 1910 , one understand . 
continue inspiration post-industrial world , new world information ecology , make sense . 
-- film ecological design james wine graduate syracuse university 1956 . 
become fellow american academy rome year bestow guggenheim fellowship 1962 . 
begin career successful sculptor graphic designer , gallery rome , marlborough gallery nyc . 
wine found site , environmental design 1970 . 
wine designer 150 architecture , , , project , include one sponsor numerous large corporation e.g. , swatch , mca universal , mtv , nickelodeon , , isuzu , disney , costa coffee , carrabba 's restaurant , italia , brinker international , , ranger italia , reliance energy corporation . 
municipal client include city hiroshima , yokohama , toyama , seville , vienna , vancouver , le puy en velay , chattanooga , new york city . 
original watercolor design project grace cover dozen international design magazine . 
educator , wine originally hold adjunct position new school social research 1963-65 number institution . 
1974 , teach associate professor fine art new york university department art arts professions . 
follow visit professorship dartmouth , university wisconsin , new jersey school architecture , cooper union design center . 
chair environmental design department parsons school design 1984-90 . 
teach domus academy italy university oklahoma , become professor architecture pennsylvania state university 1999 present . 
wine receive number fellowship grant include fulbright distinguished professor grant university toronto 2004 , national endowment design art \ u2014 critical write architecture 1992 . 
