eugenio mario gino perente 21 november 1937 - 18 march 1995 founder national labor federation , collection anti-poverty organization united states . 
's organization conduct door-to-door canvassing operate assistance program poor , also describe critic left-wing \ `` political cult . 
\ '' reporter , , fbi infer early 1980 bear gerald william , disc jockey con artist california . 
gerald bear crookston , minnesota grow idaho yuba , california . 
amateur actor , perform play yuba college . 
marry ruth mikkelsen 1960 , daughter . 
weidner report illegitimate child divorce mikkelsen 1962 . 
spend time jail non-payment child support , observer suggest may leave california avoid child support payment . 
injure car accident walk limp rest life . 
know marysville small-scale con artist . 
work yuba city disc jockey radio station five year , begin work little red bookstore san francisco , go alias \ `` \ '' \ `` gino savo . 
\ '' number individual associate store reportedly form short-lived group call liberation army revolutionary group organization . 
group send letter government office \ `` announce armed guerrilla group attack public building \ '' march 1970 . 
quickly attract attention authority , group describe quixotic media dismiss law enforcement . 
around 1970 leave california resurface new york city \ `` gino parenti . 
\ '' work briefly 1971 united farm workers organizing committee , predecessor united farm workers america ufw new york office . 
take charge power vacuum , fire ufw send jose gomez head office . 
20 year later , remember dolores huerta \ `` colorful biker type play small role boycott nine month year ... create lot problem union , attack press . 
go form group . 
\ '' . 
leave ufw , perente found eastern farm workers association suffolk county , new york , agricultural region long island . 
within year , perente 's follower start similar organization pattern california elsewhere east coast , eventually one farm worker organize drive spawn network twenty drive , call national labor federation . 
late 1970 , perente 's activity increasingly limit give lecture volunteer interpret writings marx , lenin , stalin direct daily activity volunteer . 
perente also co-author number tract , include essential organizer , training manual , \ `` genesis , \ '' story origin claim party part secret international include communist party cuba , sandinista revolutionary chile el salvador , member venceremos among founder . 
perente retreat public view mid - . 
individual associate perente purchase carrol st , apartment building crown heights neighborhood brooklyn , live , surround volunteer organization , rest life . 
volunteer allege perente drug addict , sexually harass female volunteer , regularly physically abuse volunteer organizer period . 
perente die march 18 , 1995 apartment , congestive heart failure . 
bury oak hill stony brook , ny 
