doris gwendolyn tate january 16 , 1924 -- july 10 , 1992 american campaigner rights crime victim . 
murder daughter , actress sharon tate , several , work raise public awareness united states correction system influential amendment california law relate victim violent crime . 
bear houston , texas , tate housewife mother three daughter never seek public life career . 
1969 , eldest daughter , sharon , beginning film career , marry film director roman polanski . 
eight month pregnant first child , tate four murder polanski 's beverly hills home case sensationalize throughout world . 
killer eventually identify charles ` tex ' watson , susan atkins patricia krenwinkel , act behalf leader group , charles manson . 
four find guilty murder sentence death , along leslie van houten , participate murder tate victim , participate murder los angeles couple follow night . 
death sentence overturn could apply state california temporarily abolish death penalty . 
decade murder , tate battle depression withdraw unable discuss daughter 's death . 
1982 tell leslie van houten obtain 300 signature support quest achieve parole . 
tate , vow keep daughter 's killer behind bar , mount public campaign van houten , win support national enquirer , print coupon magazine people sign send doris tate . 
350,000 signature , tate demonstrate considerable number people oppose van houten 's parole , deny . 
tate , shy woman , find thrust limelight , realize could continue work behalf late daughter , gradually adapt . 
appear various television talk show , discuss opinion correction system impact daughter 's murder family . 
join los angeles chapter \ `` parent murdered children \ '' organization , draw support group , also find reward assume role counsellor . 
later become active member victim offender reconciliation justice homicide victims group . 
found cover , coalition victim 's equal rights , serve california state advisory committee correctional services victim ' representative . 
part group work toward passage proposition 8 , victim 's rights bill , pass 1982 . 
allow presentation victim impact statement sentencing violent attacker . 
tate become first californian make statement law pass , speak parole hearing one daughter 's killer . 
1984 run california state assembly advocate victim 's rights . 
though unsuccessful , continue campaign change exist law , involve passage proposition 89 , allow governor state overturn decision make board prison term . 
tate unflinching assessment manson , watson , atkins , krenwinkel van houten , say crime vicious warrant execution . 
susan atkins , boast stab tate \ `` sick listen , \ '' begin change story seek obtain parole . 
embrace religion argue , since god forgive , need forgiveness anyone else . 
deny responsibility , change story say argue watson kill tate . 
doris tate , parole hearing , call atkins \ `` excellent actress . 
\ '' address charles watson 1984 parole 
