veronica bear veronica vazquez circa 1974 bronx , new york dance music singer theatrical actress . 
along singer ultra nate , deborah cox , consider one lead diva 1990s club music scene . 
also one latinas become successful artist english-language dance music genre . 
bear new york city borough bronx , parent originally puerto rico encourage pursue artistic inclination . 
veronica begin career 1995 release debut album v. . 
. 
veronica . 
album mixture r&b hip hop . 
album feature production rodney jerkins dallas austin . 
1997 , veronica release second album rise . 
album r&b hip hop influence . 
release two album . 
first single one feature craig mack . 
second single album title track rise release feature guest vocal big pun & cuban link . 
one first artist sign jellybean recordings , label found legendary music producer jellybean benitez , veronica string hit billboard hot dance play chart , include three reach top ten . 
let go ... release land number one spot 1998 , soon afterwards follow legendary club anthem someone hold peak number two slot remix producer johnny vicious play heavily club circuit scene . 
song still remain classic among today feature soundtrack independent film trick release 1999 star christian campbell tori spelling . 
score second number one dance hit 2000 cover evelyn \ `` champagne \ '' king 's classic r&b song love , rerecord club setting . 
remain popular singer day among gay audience especially club circuit scene . 
move away new york club music scene year . 
year , pursue love musical theater give opportunity portray slay tejano singer selena travel production life time . 
production , title selena forever travel numerous city large mexican-american population year . 
shortly successful run production , decide return new york start family return love music . 
2004 , veronica record song rapper triple seis title \ `` krazy \ '' . 
song feature triple seis ' debut album time 'll tell . 
brief hiatus , veronica return 2006 , music producer tim rex first dance single five year , relentless ... game . 
see film singer play hector lavoe 's mother younger year . 
presently reside new york city husband son , c.j. . 
son diagnose autism , veronica become tireless advocate research lead several effort , include charitable walkathon , raise research fund awareness disorder . 
